BLKCALC(1)                                                    General Commands Manual                                                   BLKCALC(1)

NAME
       blkcalc - Converts between unallocated disk unit numbers and regular disk unit numbers.

SYNOPSIS
       blkcalc [-dsu unit_addr] [-vV] [-i imgtype] [-o imgoffset] [-b dev_sector_size] [-f fstype] image [images]

DESCRIPTION
       blkcalc creates a disk unit number mapping between two images, one normal and another that only contains the unallocated units of the first
       (the default behavior of the blkls(1) program).  One of the -d, -s, or -u options must be given.  If the  -d  option  is  given,  then  the
       unit_addr  value  is the disk unit address in the regular image (i.e. from dd ).  If the unit is unallocated, its address in an unallocated
       image is given.  If the -u option is given, then the unit_addr value is the disk unit address in the unallocated  unit  image  (i.e.   from
       blkls(1)  ).   Its  disk unit address in the original image is determined.  If the -s option is given, then the unit_addr value is the disk
       unit address in the slack image (i.e. from blkls -s).  The image is the full, original image (i.e. from dd).  blkcalc was called  dcalc  in
       TSK versions prior to 3.0.0.

       -f fstype
              Identify  the  File  System  type of the image.  Use '-f list' to list the supported file system types.  If not given, autodetection
              methods are used.

       -i imgtype
              Identify the type of image file, such as raw.  Use '-i list' to list the supported types.  If not given, autodetection  methods  are
              used.

       -o imgoffset
              The sector offset where the file system starts in the image.

       -b dev_sector_size
              The  size,  in  bytes,  of  the  underlying  device  sectors.  If not given, the value in the image format is used (if it exists) or
              512-bytes is assumed.

       -v     Verbose output to STDERR.

       -V     Display version.

       image [images]
              The disk or partition image to read, whose format is given with '-i'.  Multiple image file names can be given if the image is  split
              into  multiple  segments.  If only one image file is given, and its name is the first in a sequence (e.g., as indicated by ending in
              '.001'), subsequent image segments will be included automatically.

       This is useful when keyword searching an image generated by blkls.  This allows one to identify the original unit address and provides bet‐
       ter documentation.

EXAMPLE
       # blkcalc -u 64 images/wd0e

SEE ALSO
       blkls(1),

AUTHOR
       Brian Carrier <carrier at sleuthkit dot org>

       Send documentation updates to <doc-updates at sleuthkit dot org>

                                                                                                                                        BLKCALC(1)
