BOOTCTL(1)                                      bootctl                                     BOOTCTL(1)

NAME
       bootctl - Control the firmware and boot manager settings

SYNOPSIS
       bootctl [OPTIONS...] {COMMAND}

DESCRIPTION
       bootctl can check the EFI boot loader status, list available boot loaders and boot loader
       entries, and install, update, or remove the systemd-boot(7) boot loader on the current system.

OPTIONS
       The following options are understood:

       --esp-path=
           Path to the EFI System Partition (ESP). If not specified, /efi/, /boot/, and /boot/efi are
           checked in turn. It is recommended to mount the ESP to /efi/, if possible.

       --boot-path=
           Path to the Extended Boot Loader partition, as defined in the Boot Loader Specification[1].
           If not specified, /boot/ are checked. It is recommended to mount the Extended Boot Loader
           partition to /boot/, if possible.

       -p, --print-esp-path
           This option modifies the behaviour of status. Prints only the path to the EFI System
           Partition (ESP) to standard output and exits.

       --print-boot-path
           This option modifies the behaviour of status. Prints only the path to the Extended Boot
           Loader partition if it exists, and the path to the ESP otherwise to standard output and
           exit. This command is useful to determine where to place boot loader entries, as they are
           preferably placed in the Extended Boot Loader partition if it exists and in the ESP
           otherwise.

       --no-variables
           Do not touch the firmware's boot loader list stored in EFI variables.

       --no-pager
           Do not pipe output into a pager.

       -h, --help
           Print a short help text and exit.

       --version
           Print a short version string and exit.

COMMANDS
       status
           Shows brief information about the system firmware, the boot loader that was used to boot
           the system, the boot loaders currently available in the ESP, the boot loaders listed in the
           firmware's list of boot loaders and the current default boot loader entry. If no command is
           specified, this is the implied default.

       install
           Installs systemd-boot into the EFI system partition. A copy of systemd-boot will be stored
           as the EFI default/fallback loader at ESP/EFI/BOOT/BOOT*.EFI. The boot loader is then added
           to the top of the firmware's boot loader list.

       update
           Updates all installed versions of systemd-boot(7), if the available version is newer than
           the version installed in the EFI system partition. This also includes the EFI
           default/fallback loader at ESP/EFI/BOOT/BOOT*.EFI. The boot loader is then added to end of
           the firmware's boot loader list if missing.

       remove
           Removes all installed versions of systemd-boot from the EFI system partition and the
           firmware's boot loader list.

       list
           Shows all available boot loader entries implementing the Boot Loader Specification[1], as
           well as any other entries discovered or automatically generated by the boot loader.

       set-default ID, set-oneshot ID
           Sets the default boot loader entry. Takes a single boot loader entry ID string as argument.
           The set-oneshot command will set the default entry only for the next boot, the set-default
           will set it persistently for all future boots.

EXIT STATUS
       On success, 0 is returned, a non-zero failure code otherwise.

ENVIRONMENT
       If $SYSTEMD_RELAX_ESP_CHECKS=1 is set the validation checks for the ESP are relaxed, and the
       path specified with --esp-path= may refer to any kind of file system on any kind of partition.

       Similarly, $SYSTEMD_RELAX_XBOOTLDR_CHECKS=1 turns off some validation checks for the Extended
       Boot Loader partition.

SEE ALSO
       systemd-boot(7), Boot Loader Specification[1], Boot Loader Interface[2]

NOTES
        1. Boot Loader Specification
           https://systemd.io/BOOT_LOADER_SPECIFICATION

        2. Boot Loader Interface
           https://systemd.io/BOOT_LOADER_INTERFACE

systemd 242                                                                                 BOOTCTL(1)
