cracklib-format(8)                      Debian GNU/Linux manual                     cracklib-format(8)

NAME
       cracklib-format, cracklib-packer, cracklib-unpacker - cracklib dictionary utilities

SYNOPSIS
       cracklib-format file ...

       cracklib-packer cracklib_dictpath

       cracklib-unpacker cracklib_dictpath

DESCRIPTION
       cracklib-format  takes  a  list of text files each containing a list of words, one per line, It
       lowercases all words, removes control characters, and sorts the lists.  It outputs the  cleaned
       up list to standard output.  The text files may be optionally compressed with gzip(1).

       If you supply massive amounts of text to cracklib-format you must have enough free space avail‐
       able for use by the sort(1) command.  If you do not have 20Mb free  in  /var/tmp  (or  whatever
       temporary area your sort(1) command uses), have a look at the /usr/sbin/cracklib-format program
       which is a sh(1) program.  You can usually tweak the sort(1) command to use any large  area  of
       disk you desire, by use of the -T option.  cracklib-format has a hook for this.

       cracklib-packer  reads  from  standard  input  a list of sorted and cleaned words and creates a
       database in the directory and prefix given by  the  command  line  argument  cracklib_dictpath.
       Three  files  are  created with the suffixes of .hwm, .pwd, and .pwi.  These three files are in
       the format that the FascistCheck(3) subroutine,  cracklib-unpacker(8),  and  cracklib-check(8),
       utilities understand.  The number of words read and written are printed on stdout(3).

       cracklib-unpacker reads from the database in the directory and prefix given by the command line
       argument cracklib_dictpath and outputs on standard output the list of words that  make  up  the
       database.

       The  database  is  in  a binary format generated by the utilities cracklib-format(8) and crack‐
       lib-packer(8).  On a Debian system the database is located in the  directory  /var/cache/crack‐
       lib/cracklib_dict  and is generated daily with the program /etc/cron.daily/cracklib.  The loca‐
       tion is also defined in the header file crack.h using  the  constant  CRACKLIB_DICTPATH  though
       none  of  the subroutines in the cracklib libraries have this location hardcoded into their im‐
       plementations.

FILES
       /var/cache/cracklib/cracklib_dict.[hwm|pwd|pwi]
              cracklib dictionary database files used by utilities.

       /etc/cron.daily/cracklib
              cracklib daily cron program to rebuild the cracklib dictionary database.

       /etc/cracklib/cracklib.conf
              cracklib configuration file used by the cracklib  daily  cron  program  to  rebuild  the
              cracklib dictionary database.

       /usr/include/crack.h
              cracklib  header  file  defining  the subroutine FascistCheck(3) and the constant CRACK‐
              LIB_DICTPATH used to compile in the location of the  cracklib  dictionary  database  for
              these utilities.

       /usr/sbin/cracklib-format
              cracklib shell script to create initial list of words for dictionary database.

SEE ALSO
       FascistCheck(3), cracklib-check(8), update-cracklib(8), create-cracklib-dict(8)
       /usr/share/doc/libcrack2/libcrack2.html
       /usr/share/doc/cracklib-runtime/cracklib-runtime.html

AUTHOR
       cracklib2  is  written by Alec Muffett <alecm@crypto.dircon.co.uk>. Manual added by Jean Pierre
       LeJacq <jplejacq@quoininc.com>.

2.7-8.5                              Sat Jun 21 22:43:12 CEST 2008                  cracklib-format(8)
