CRASH(8)                                                      System Manager's Manual                                                     CRASH(8)

NAME
       crash - Analyze Linux crash dump data or a live system

SYNOPSIS
       crash [OPTION]... NAMELIST MEMORY-IMAGE[@ADDRESS]    (dumpfile form)
       crash [OPTION]... [NAMELIST]                         (live system form)

DESCRIPTION
       Crash  is  a tool for interactively analyzing the state of the Linux system while it is running, or after a kernel crash has occurred and a
       core dump has been created by the netdump, diskdump, LKCD, kdump, xendump or kvmdump facilities.  It is loosely  based  on  the  SVR4  UNIX
       crash  command,  but has been significantly enhanced by completely merging it with the gdb(1) debugger. The marriage of the two effectively
       combines the kernel-specific nature of the traditional UNIX crash utility with the source code level debugging capabilities of gdb(1).

       In the dumpfile form, both a NAMELIST and a MEMORY-IMAGE argument must be entered.  In the live system form, the NAMELIST argument must  be
       entered if the kernel's vmlinux file is not located in a known location, such as the /usr/lib/debug/lib/modules/<kernel-version> directory.

       The  crash  utility  has also been extended to support the analysis of dumpfiles generated by a crash of the Xen hypervisor.  In that case,
       the NAMELIST argument must be that of the xen-syms binary.  Live system analysis is not supported for the Xen hypervisor.

       The crash utility command set consists of common kernel core analysis tools such as kernel stack back traces of all processes, source  code
       disassembly,  formatted  kernel  structure and variable displays, virtual memory data, dumps of linked-lists, etc., along with several com‐
       mands that delve deeper into specific kernel subsystems.  Appropriate gdb commands may also be entered, which in turn are passed on to  the
       gdb  module  for  execution.   If  desired, commands may be placed in either a $HOME/.crashrc file and/or in a .crashrc file in the current
       directory.  During initialization, the commands in $HOME/.crashrc are executed first, followed by those in the ./.crashrc file.

       The crash utility is designed to be independent of Linux version dependencies. When new kernel source code impacts the correct  functional‐
       ity of crash and its command set, the utility will be updated to recognize new kernel code changes, while maintaining backwards compatibil‐
       ity with earlier releases.

OPTIONS
       NAMELIST
              This is a pathname to an uncompressed kernel image (a vmlinux file), or a Xen hypervisor image (a xen-syms file) which has been com‐
              piled with the "-g" option.  If using the dumpfile form, a vmlinux file may be compressed in either gzip or bzip2 formats.

       MEMORY-IMAGE[@ADDRESS]
              A kernel core dump file created by the netdump, diskdump, LKCD kdump, xendump or kvmdump facilities.

              If  a MEMORY-IMAGE argument is not entered, the session will be invoked on the live system, which typically requires root privileges
              because of the device file used to access system RAM.  By default, /dev/crash will be used if it exists.  If it does not exist, then
              /dev/mem  will  be used; but if the kernel has been configured with CONFIG_STRICT_DEVMEM, then /proc/kcore will be used.  It is per‐
              missible to explicitly enter /dev/crash, /dev/mem or /proc/kcore.

              An @ADDRESS value must be appended to the MEMORY-IMAGE if the dumpfile is a raw RAM dumpfile that has no header information describ‐
              ing the file contents.  Multiple MEMORY-IMAGE@ADDRESS ordered pairs may be entered, with each dumpfile containing a contiguous block
              of RAM, where the ADDRESS value is the physical start address of the block expressed in hexadecimal.  The physical address  value(s)
              will  be  used  to  create a temporary ELF header in /var/tmp, which will only exist during the crash session.  If a raw RAM dumpile
              represents a live memory source, such as that specified by the QEMU mem-path argument of a memory-backend-file object, then  "live:"
              must be prepended to the MEMORY-IMAGE name.

       mapfile
              If  the  NAMELIST  file  is  not  the same kernel that is running (live system form), or the kernel that was running when the system
              crashed (dumpfile form), then the System.map file of the original kernel should be entered on the command line.

       -h [option]
       --help [option]
              Without an option argument, display a crash usage help message.  If the option argument is a crash command name, the help  page  for
              that  command  is  displayed.   If  it is the string "input", a page describing the various crash command line input options is dis‐
              played.  If it is the string "output", a page describing command line output options is displayed.  If it is the string "all",  then
              all of the possible help messages are displayed.  After the help message is displayed, crash exits.

       -s     Silently  proceed  directly to the "crash>" prompt without displaying any version, GPL, or crash initialization data during startup,
              and by default, runtime command output is not passed to any scrolling command.

       -i file
              Execute the command(s) contained in file prior to displaying the "crash>" prompt for interactive user input.

       -d num Set the internal debug level.  The higher the number, the more debugging data will be printed when crash initializes and runs.

       -S     Use /boot/System.map as the mapfile.

       -e vi | emacs
              Set the readline(3) command line editing mode to "vi" or "emacs".  The default editing mode is "vi".

       -f     Force the usage of a compressed vmlinux file if its original name does not start with "vmlinux".

       -k     Indicate that the NAMELIST file is an LKCD "Kerntypes" debuginfo file.

       -g [namelist]
              Determine if a vmlinux or xen-syms namelist file contains debugging data.

       -t     Display the system-crash timestamp and exit.

       -L     Attempt to lock all of its virtual address space into memory by calling mlockall(MCL_CURRENT|MCL_FUTURE) during initialization.   If
              the system call fails, an error message will be displayed, but the session continues.

       -c tty-device
              Open the tty-device as the console used for debug messages.

       -p page-size
              If a processor's page size cannot be determined by the dumpfile, and the processor default cannot be used, use page-size.

       -o filename
              Only  used with the MEMORY-IMAGE@ADDRESS format for raw RAM dumpfiles, specifies a filename of a new ELF vmcore that will be created
              and used as the dumpfile.  It will be saved to allow future use as a standalone vmcore, replacing the original raw RAM dumpfile.

       -m option=value
       --machdep option=value
              Pass an option and value pair to machine-dependent code.  These architecture-specific option/pairs should only be required  in  very
              rare circumstances:

              X86_64:
                phys_base=<physical-address>
                irq_eframe_link=<value>
                irq_stack_gap=<value>
                max_physmem_bits=<value>
                kernel_image_size=<value>
                vm=orig       (pre-2.6.11 virtual memory address ranges)
                vm=2.6.11     (2.6.11 and later virtual memory address ranges)
                vm=xen        (Xen kernel virtual memory address ranges)
                vm=xen-rhel4  (RHEL4 Xen kernel virtual address ranges)
                vm=5level     (5-level page tables)
              PPC64:
                vm=orig
                vm=2.6.14     (4-level page tables)
              IA64:
                phys_start=<physical-address>
                init_stack_size=<size>
                vm=4l         (4-level page tables)
              ARM:
                phys_base=<physical-address>
              ARM64:
                phys_offset=<physical-address>
                kimage_voffset=<kimage_voffset-value>
              X86:
                page_offset=<CONFIG_PAGE_OFFSET-value>

       -x     Automatically  load  extension modules from a particular directory.  If a directory is specified in the CRASH_EXTENSIONS shell envi‐
              ronment  variable,  then  that  directory  will  be  used.   Otherwise   /usr/lib64/crash/extensions   (64-bit   architectures)   or
              /usr/lib/crash/extensions (32-bit architectures) will be used; if they do not exist, then the ./extensions directory will be used.

       --active
              Track only the active task on each cpu.

       --buildinfo
              Display  the crash binary's build date, the user ID of the builder, the hostname of the machine where the build was done, the target
              architecture, the version number, and the compiler version.

       --memory_module modname
              Use the modname as an alternative kernel module to the crash.ko module that creates the /dev/crash device.

       --memory_device device
              Use device as an alternative device to the /dev/crash, /dev/mem or /proc/kcore devices.

       --log dumpfile
              Dump the contents of the kernel log buffer.  A kernel namelist argument is not necessary, but the dumpfile must contain the  VMCORE‐
              INFO data taken from the original /proc/vmcore ELF header.

       --no_kallsyms
              Do not use kallsyms-generated symbol information contained within kernel module object files.

       --no_modules
              Do not access or display any kernel module related information.

       --no_ikconf
              Do not attempt to read configuration data that was built into kernels configured with CONFIG_IKCONFIG.

       --no_data_debug
              Do not verify the validity of all structure member offsets and structure sizes that it uses.

       --no_kmem_cache
              Do not initialize the kernel's slab cache infrastructure, and commands that use kmem_cache-related data will not work.

       --no_elf_notes
              Do not use the registers from the ELF NT_PRSTATUS notes saved in a compressed kdump header for backtraces.

       --kmem_cache_delay
              Delay the initialization of the kernel's slab cache infrastructure until it is required by a run-time command.

       --readnow
              Pass  this  flag  to the embedded gdb module, which will override its two-stage strategy that it uses for reading symbol tables from
              the NAMELIST.

       --smp  Specify that the system being analyzed is an SMP kernel.

       -v
       --version
              Display the version of the crash utility, the version of the embedded gdb module, GPL information, and copyright notices.

       --cpus number
              Specify the number of cpus in the SMP system being analyzed.

       --osrelease dumpfile
              Display the OSRELEASE vmcoreinfo string from a kdump dumpfile header.

       --hyper
              Force the session to be that of a Xen hypervisor.

       --p2m_mfn pfn
              When a Xen Hypervisor or its dom0 kernel crashes, the dumpfile is typically analyzed with either the Xen hypervisor or the dom0 ker‐
              nel.   It  is  also  possible  to analyze any of the guest domU kernels if the pfn_to_mfn_list_list pfn value of the guest kernel is
              passed on the command line along with its NAMELIST and the dumpfile.

       --xen_phys_start physical-address
              Supply the base physical address of the Xen hypervisor's text and static data for older xendump dumpfiles that  did  not  pass  that
              information in the dumpfile header.

       --zero_excluded
              If  the  makedumpfile(8)  facility  has filtered a compressed kdump dumpfile to exclude various types of non-essential pages, or has
              marked a compressed or ELF kdump dumpfile as incomplete due to an ENOSPC or other error during its creation,  any  attempt  to  read
              missing pages will fail.  With this flag, reads from any of those pages will return zero-filled memory.

       --no_panic
              Do  not attempt to find the task that was running when the kernel crashed.  Set the initial context to that of the "swapper" task on
              cpu 0.

       --more Use /bin/more as the command output scroller, overriding the default of /usr/bin/less and  any  settings  in  either  ./.crashrc  or
              $HOME/.crashrc.

       --less Use /usr/bin/less as the command output scroller, overriding any settings in either ./.crashrc or $HOME/.crashrc.

       --hex  Set  the  default  command  output  radix  to 16, overriding the default radix of 10, and any radix settings in either ./.crashrc or
              $HOME/.crashrc.

       --dec  Set the default command output radix to 10, overriding any radix settings in  either  ./.crashrc  or  $HOME/.crashrc.  This  is  the
              default radix setting.

       --CRASHPAGER
              Use  the output paging command defined in the CRASHPAGER shell environment variable, overriding any settings in either ./.crashrc or
              $HOME/.crashrc.

       --no_scroll
              Do not pass run-time command output to any scrolling command.

       --no_strip
              Do not strip cloned kernel text symbol names.

       --no_crashrc
              Do not execute the commands in either $HOME/.crashrc or ./.crashrc.

       --mod directory
              When loading the debuginfo data of kernel modules with the mod -S command, search for their object files in directory instead of  in
              the standard location.

       --kaslr offset|auto
              If an x86_64 kernel was configured with CONFIG_RANDOMIZE_BASE, the offset value is equal to the difference between the symbol values
              compiled into the vmlinux file and their relocated KASLR values.  If set to auto, the KASLR offset value will be automatically  cal‐
              culated.

       --reloc size
              When  analyzing  live  x86  kernels  that  were  configured with a CONFIG_PHYSICAL_START value that is larger than its CONFIG_PHYSI‐
              CAL_ALIGN value, then it will be necessary to enter a relocation size equal to the difference between the two values.

       --hash count
              Set the number of internal hash queue heads used for list gathering and verification.  The default count is 32768.

       --minimal
              Bring up a session that is restricted to the log, dis, rd, sym, eval, set and exit commands.  This  option  may  provide  a  way  to
              extract some minimal/quick information from a corrupted or truncated dumpfile, or in situations where one of the several kernel sub‐
              system initialization routines would abort the crash session.

       --kvmhost [32|64]
              When examining an x86 KVM guest dumpfile, this option specifies that the KVM host that created the dumpfile was an x86  (32-bit)  or
              an x86_64 (64-bit) machine, overriding the automatically determined value.

       --kvmio <size>
              override the automatically-calculated KVM guest I/O hole size.

       --offline [show|hide]
              Show or hide command output that is related to offline cpus.  The default setting is show.

COMMANDS
       Each crash command generally falls into one of the following categories:

       Symbolic display
              Displays of kernel text/data, which take full advantage of the power of gdb to format and display data structures symbolically.

       System state
              The  majority of crash commands consist of a set of "kernel-aware" commands, which delve into various kernel subsystems on a system-
              wide or per-task basis.

       Utility functions
              A set of useful helper commands serving various purposes, some simple, others quite powerful.

       Session control
              Commands that control the crash session itself.

       The following alphabetical list consists of a very simple overview of each crash command.  However, since individual  commands  often  have
       several options resulting in significantly different output, it is suggested that the full description of each command be viewed by execut‐
       ing crash -h <command>, or during a crash session by simply entering help command.

       *      "pointer to" is shorthand for either the struct or union commands.  It displays the contents of a kernel structure or union.

       alias  creates a single-word alias for a command.

       ascii  displays an ascii chart or translates a numeric value into its ascii components.

       bt     displays a task's kernel-stack backtrace.  If it is given the -a option, it displays the stack traces of the  active  tasks  on  all
              CPUs.  It is often used with the foreach command to display the backtraces of all tasks with one command.

       btop   translates a byte value (physical offset) to its page number.

       dev    displays data concerning the character and block device assignments, I/O port usage, I/O memory usage, and PCI device data.

       dis    disassembles  memory, either entire kernel functions, from a location for a specified number of instructions, or from the start of a
              function up to a specified memory location.

       eval   evaluates an expression or numeric type and displays the result in hexadecimal, decimal, octal and binary.

       exit   causes crash to exit.

       extend dynamically loads or unloads crash shared object extension modules.

       files  displays information about open files in a context.

       foreach
              repeats a specified command for the specified (or all) tasks in the system.

       fuser  displays the tasks using the specified file or socket.

       gdb    passes its argument to the embedded gdb module.  It is useful for executing gdb commands that have the same name as crash commands.

       help   alone displays the command menu; if followed by a command name, a full description of a command, its options, and examples are  dis‐
              played.  Its output is far more complete and useful than this man page.

       ipcs   displays data about the System V IPC facilities.

       irq    displays data concerning interrupt request numbers and bottom-half interrupt handling.

       kmem   displays information about the use of kernel memory.

       list   displays the contents of a linked list.

       log    displays the kernel log_buf contents in chronological order.

       mach   displays data specific to the machine type.

       mod    displays information about the currently installed kernel modules, or adds or deletes symbolic or debugging information about speci‐
              fied kernel modules.

       mount  displays information about the currently-mounted filesystems.

       net    display various network related data.

       p      passes its arguments to the gdb "print" command for evaluation and display.

       ps     displays process status for specified, or all, processes in the system.

       pte    translates the hexadecimal contents of a PTE into its physical page address and page bit settings.

       ptob   translates a page frame number to its byte value.

       ptov   translates a hexadecimal physical address into a kernel virtual address.

       q      is an alias for the "exit" command.

       rd     displays the contents of memory, with the output formatted in several different manners.

       repeat repeats a command indefinitely, optionally delaying a given number of seconds between each command execution.

       runq   displays the tasks on the run queue.

       search searches a range of user or kernel memory space for given value.

       set    either sets a new context, or gets the current context for display.

       sig    displays signal-handling data of one or more tasks.

       struct displays either a structure definition or the contents of a kernel structure at a specified address.

       swap   displays information about each configured swap device.

       sym    translates a symbol to its virtual address, or a static kernel virtual address to its symbol -- or to a symbol-plus-offset value, if
              appropriate.

       sys    displays system-specific data.

       task   displays the contents of a task_struct.

       tree   displays the contents of a red-black tree or a radix tree.

       timer  displays the timer queue entries, both old- and new-style, in chronological order.

       union  is similar to the struct command, except that it works on kernel unions.

       vm     displays basic virtual memory information of a context.

       vtop   translates a user or kernel virtual address to its physical address.

       waitq  walks the wait queue list displaying the tasks which are blocked on the specified wait queue.

       whatis displays the definition of structures, unions, typedefs or text/data symbols.

       wr     modifies  the  contents  of memory on a live system.  It can only be used if /dev/mem is the device file being used to access system
              RAM, and should obviously be used with great care.

       When crash is invoked with a Xen hypervisor binary as the NAMELIST, the command set is slightly modified.  The *, alias,  ascii,  bt,  dis,
       eval,  exit, extend, gdb, help, list, log, p, pte, rd, repeat, search, set, struct, sym, sys, union, whatis, wr and q commands are the same
       as above.  The following commands are specific to the Xen hypervisor:

       domain displays the contents of the domain structure for selected, or all, domains.

       doms   displays domain status for selected, or all, domains.

       dumpinfo
              displays Xen dump information for selected, or all, cpus.

       pcpus  displays physical cpu information for selected, or all, cpus.

       vcpus  displays vcpu status for selected, or all, vcpus.

FILES
       .crashrc
              Initialization commands.  The file can be located in the user's HOME directory and/or the current directory.  Commands found in  the
              .crashrc file in the HOME directory are executed before those in the current directory's .crashrc file.

ENVIRONMENT
       EDITOR Command input is read using readline(3).  If EDITOR is set to emacs or vi then suitable keybindings are used.  If EDITOR is not set,
              then vi is used.  This can be overridden by set vi or set emacs commands located in a .crashrc file, or by entering -e emacs on  the
              crash command line.

       CRASHPAGER
              If  CRASHPAGER is set, its value is used as the name of the program to which command output will be sent.  If not, then command out‐
              put is sent to /usr/bin/less -E -X by default.

       CRASH_MODULE_PATH
              Specifies an alternative directory tree to search for kernel module object files.

       CRASH_EXTENSIONS
              Specifies a directory containing extension modules that will be loaded automatically if the -x command line option is used.

NOTES
       If crash does not work, look for a newer version: kernel evolution frequently makes crash updates necessary.

       The command set scroll off will cause output to be sent directly to the terminal rather than through a paging program.  This is useful, for
       example, if you are running crash in a window of emacs.

AUTHOR
       Dave Anderson <anderson@redhat.com> wrote crash.

       Jay Fenlason <fenlason@redhat.com> and Dave Anderson <anderson@redhat.com> wrote this man page.

SEE ALSO
       The help command within crash provides more complete and accurate documentation than this man page.

       http://people.redhat.com/anderson - the home page of the crash utility.

       netdump(8), gdb(1), makedumpfile(8)

                                                                                                                                          CRASH(8)
