DH_INSTALLDEB(1)                               Debhelper                              DH_INSTALLDEB(1)

NAME
       dh_installdeb - install files into the DEBIAN directory

SYNOPSIS
       dh_installdeb [debhelper options]

DESCRIPTION
       dh_installdeb is a debhelper program that is responsible for installing files into the DEBIAN
       directories in package build directories with the correct permissions.

FILES
       package.postinst
       package.preinst
       package.postrm
       package.prerm
           These maintainer scripts are installed into the DEBIAN directory.

           dh_installdeb will perform substitution of known tokens of the pattern #TOKEN#.  In
           generally, scripts will want to include the #DEBHELPER# to benefit from the shell scripts
           generated by debhelper commands (including those from dh_installdeb when it processes
           package.maintscript files)

           For more information on what tokens Inside the scripts, the token #DEBHELPER# is replaced
           with shell script snippets generated by other debhelper commands.

       package.triggers
       package.shlibs
           These control files are installed into the DEBIAN directory.

           Note that package.shlibs is only installed in compat level 9 and earlier.  In compat 10,
           please use dh_makeshlibs(1).

       package.conffiles
           Historically, this file was needed to manually mark files files as conffiles.  However, it
           has become de facto obsolete since debhelper automatically computed which files should be
           marked as conffiles.

           In compatibility level up and including 11, this control file will be installed into the
           DEBIAN directory.  In compatibility level 12 and later, the file is silently ignored.

       package.maintscript
           Lines in this file correspond to dpkg-maintscript-helper(1) commands and parameters.
           However, the "maint-script-parameters" should not be included as debhelper will add those
           automatically.

           Example:

               # Correct
               rm_conffile /etc/obsolete.conf 0.2~ foo
               # INCORRECT
               rm_conffile /etc/obsolete.conf 0.2~ foo -- "$@"

           In compat 10 or later, any shell metacharacters will be escaped, so arbitrary shell code
           cannot be inserted here.  For example, a line such as "mv_conffile /etc/oldconffile
           /etc/newconffile" will insert maintainer script snippets into all maintainer scripts
           sufficient to move that conffile.

           It was also the intention to escape shell metacharacters in previous compat levels.
           However, it did not work properly and as such it was possible to embed arbitrary shell code
           in earlier compat levels.

           The dh_installdeb tool will do some basic validation of some of the commands listed in this
           file to catch common mistakes.  The validation is enabled as a warning since compat 10 and
           as a hard error in compat 12.

OPTIONS
       -DTOKEN=VALUE, --define TOKEN=VALUE
           Define tokens to be replaced inside the maintainer scripts when it is generated.  Please
           note that the limitations described in "Limitations in token names" also applies to tokens
           defined on the command line.  Invalid token names will trigger an error.

           In the simple case, this parameter will cause #TOKEN# to be replaced by VALUE.  If VALUE
           starts with a literal @-sign, then VALUE is expected to point to a file containing the
           actual value to insert.

           An explicit declared token with this parameter will replace built-in tokens.

           Test examples to aid with the understanding:

                   cat >> debian/postinst <<EOF
                   #SIMPLE#
                   #FILEBASED#
                   EOF
                   echo -n "Complex value" > some-file
               dh_installdeb --define SIMPLE=direct --define FILEBASED=@some-file

           In this example, #SIMPLE# will expand to direct and #FILEBASED# will expand to Complex
           value.

           It is also possible to do set package-specific values for a given token.  This is useful
           when dh_installdeb is acting on multiple packages that need different values for the same
           token.  This is done by prefixing the token name with pkg.package-name..

           This can be used as in the following example:

                   cat >> debian/foo.postinst <<EOF
                   # Script for #PACKAGE#
                   #TOKEN#
                   EOF
                   cat >> debian/bar.postinst <<EOF
                   # Script for #PACKAGE#
                   #TOKEN#
                   EOF
                   cat >> debian/baz.postinst <<EOF
                   # Script for #PACKAGE#
                   #TOKEN#
                   EOF
               dh_installdeb -pfoo -pbar -pbaz  --define TOKEN=default --define pkg.bar.TOKEN=unique-bar-value \
                 --define pkg.baz.TOKEN=unique-baz-value

           In this example, #TOKEN# will expand to default in debian/foo.postinst, to unique-bar-value
           in debian/bar.postinst and to unique-baz-value in debian/baz.postinst.

           Note that the #pkg.*# tokens will be visible in all scripts acted on.  E.g.  you can refer
           to #pkg.bar.TOKEN# inside debian/foo.postinst and it will be replaced by unique-bar-value.

SUBSTITUTION IN MAINTAINER SCRIPTS
       The dh_installdeb will automatically replace the following tokens inside a provided maintainer
       script (if not replaced via -D/--define):

       #DEBHELPER#
           This token is by default replaced with generated shell snippets debhelper commands.  This
           includes the snippets generated by dh_installdeb from package.maintscript file (if
           present).

       #DEB_HOST_NAME#, #DEB_BUILD_NAME#, #DEB_TARGET_NAME#
           These tokens are replaced with the respective variable from dpkg-architecture(1).  In
           almost all cases, you will want use the #DEB_HOST_NAME variant in a script to ensure you
           get the right value when cross-building.

           On a best effort, tokens of this pattern that do not match a variable in
           dpkg-architecture(1) will be left as-is.

       #ENV.NAME#
           These tokens of this form will be replaced with value of the corresponding environment
           variable.  If the environment variable is unset, the token is replaced with the empty
           string.

           Note that there are limits on which names can be used (see "Limitations in token names").

       #PACKAGE#
           This token is by default replaced the package name, which will contain the concrete script.

   Limitations in token names
       All tokens intended to be substituted must match the regex: #[A-Za-z0-9_.+]+#

       Tokens that do not match that regex will be silently ignored if found in the script template.
       Invalid token names passed to -D or --define will cause dh_installdeb to reject the command
       with an error in most cases.

SEE ALSO
       debhelper(7)

       This program is a part of debhelper.

AUTHOR
       Joey Hess <joeyh@debian.org>

12.6.1ubuntu2                                 2019-09-17                              DH_INSTALLDEB(1)
