DH_MAKESHLIBS(1)                               Debhelper                              DH_MAKESHLIBS(1)

NAME
       dh_makeshlibs - automatically create shlibs file and call dpkg-gensymbols

SYNOPSIS
       dh_makeshlibs [debhelper options] [-mmajor] [-V[dependencies]] [-n] [-Xitem] [-- params]

DESCRIPTION
       dh_makeshlibs is a debhelper program that automatically scans for shared libraries, and
       generates a shlibs file for the libraries it finds.

       It will also ensure that ldconfig is invoked during install and removal when it finds shared
       libraries.  Since debhelper 9.20151004, this is done via a dpkg trigger.  In older versions of
       debhelper, dh_makeshlibs would generate a maintainer script for this purpose.

       Since debhelper 12.3, dh_makeshlibs will by default add an additional udeb line for udebs in
       the shlibs file, when the udeb has the same name as the deb followed by a "-udeb" suffix (e.g.
       if the deb is called "libfoo1", then debhelper will auto-detect the udeb if it is named
       "libfoo1-udeb"). Please use the --add-udeb and --no-add-udeb options below when this auto-
       detection is insufficient.

       If you previously used --add-udeb and is considering to migrate to using the auto-detection new
       auto-detection feature in 12.3, then please remember to test that the resulting DEBIAN/shlibs
       files are as expected.  There are some known corner cases, where the auto-detection is
       insufficient.  These include when the udeb contains library files from multiple regular deb
       packages or when the packages do not follow the expected naming convention.

FILES
       debian/package.shlibs
           Installs this file, if present, into the package as DEBIAN/shlibs.  If omitted, debhelper
           will generate a shlibs file automatically if it detects any libraries.

           Note in compat levels 9 and earlier, this file was installed by dh_installdeb(1) rather
           than dh_makeshlibs.

       debian/package.symbols
       debian/package.symbols.arch
           These symbols files, if present, are passed to dpkg-gensymbols(1) to be processed and
           installed. Use the arch specific names if you need to provide different symbols files for
           different architectures.

OPTIONS
       -mmajor, --major=major
           Instead of trying to guess the major number of the library with objdump, use the major
           number specified after the -m parameter. This is much less useful than it used to be, back
           in the bad old days when this program looked at library filenames rather than using
           objdump.

       -V, -Vdependencies
       --version-info, --version-info=dependencies
           If a shlibs file is generated by this program, this option controls what version will be
           used in the dependency relation.

           In compat 12 and later, dh_makeshlibs defaults to -VUpstream-Version.  In compat 11 and
           earlier the default behaved like -VNone..

           The dh_makeshlibs tool can generate dependencies in three variants:

           -VUpstream-Version
               The dependency will be "packagename (>= packageversion)".  Note that Upstream-Version
               is case-sensitive and must be written exactly as shown here.

               This is a conservative setting that always ensures that other packages' shared library
               dependencies are at least as tight as they need to be (unless the library is prone to
               changing ABI without updating the upstream version number).

               The flip side is that packages might end up with dependencies that are too tight in
               some cases (note a symbols file can mitigate this issue).  This is often of minor
               temporary inconvenience and usually a lot better than the fall out caused by forgetting
               to bump the dependency information.

               This explicit form was added in debhelper/11.3.  In previous versions, a -V without any
               dependency information was used instead (and that form still works)

           -VNone
               The dependency will be "packagename".  Note that None is case-sensitive and must be
               written exactly as shown here.

               This form is generally unsafe with the only exception being if upstream does not extend
               the ABI in any way.  However, most upstreams improve their interfaces over time and
               packagers are recommended to use -VUpstream-Version (or one of the other forms of
               -Vdependencies).

               Alternatively, this may be sufficient if (and only if) the package uses symbol
               versioning (see dpkg-gensymbols(1)) and does not build any udeb packages.  Note that
               symbols are not supported for udeb packages, which solely relies on shlibs for
               dependency handling.

           -Vpackage-relation
               In this case, the value passed to -V will be used as a dependency relation.  The
               package-relation should generally be of the form "some-package-name (>= some-package-
               version)".  Remember to include the package name.

               Note that debhelper will use the value as it is with no sanity checking or
               modification.  In rare special cases, this is needed to generate a dependency on a
               different package than the one containing the library.

           When choosing a value for this option, please keep mind that if the package provides a
           symbols file, then that it generally preferred over the shlibs file for regular .deb
           packages.  See dpkg-shlibdeps(1) for more information on this topic.

       -n, --no-scripts
           Do not add the "ldconfig" trigger even if it seems like the package might need it.  The
           option is called --no-scripts for historical reasons as dh_makeshlibs would previously
           generate maintainer scripts that called ldconfig.

       -Xitem, --exclude=item
           Exclude files that contain item anywhere in their filename or directory from being treated
           as shared libraries.

       --add-udeb=udeb
           Create an additional line for udebs in the shlibs file and use udeb as the package name for
           udebs to depend on instead of the regular library package.

           This is option is only useful for special cases such as when debhelper cannot auto-detect
           package name of the udeb package, when the udeb will contain libraries from multiple deb
           packages, or when the udeb contains libraries not present in the deb package.

       --no-add-udeb
           Do not add any udeb lines to the shlibs file.  This can be used to disable the default
           auto-detection of udebs.

       -- params
           Pass params to dpkg-gensymbols(1).

EXAMPLES
       dh_makeshlibs -VNone
           Assuming this is a package named libfoobar1, generates a shlibs file that looks something
           like:
            libfoobar 1 libfoobar1

       dh_makeshlibs -VUpstream-Version
           Assuming the current version of the package is 1.1-3, generates a shlibs file that looks
           something like:
            libfoobar 1 libfoobar1 (>= 1.1)

       dh_makeshlibs -V 'libfoobar1 (>= 1.0)'
           Generates a shlibs file that looks something like:
             libfoobar 1 libfoobar1 (>= 1.0)

SEE ALSO
       debhelper(7)

       This program is a part of debhelper.

AUTHOR
       Joey Hess <joeyh@debian.org>

12.6.1ubuntu2                                 2019-09-17                              DH_MAKESHLIBS(1)
