DOTLOCK.MAILUTILS(1)                         User Commands                        DOTLOCK.MAILUTILS(1)

NAME
       dotlock.mailutils - lock mail spool files.

SYNOPSIS
       dotlock.mailutils [OPTION...] FILE

DESCRIPTION
       GNU dotlock -- lock mail spool files.

       -d, --[no-]debug
              print details of failure reasons to stderr

       -f, --force[=MINUTES]
              forcibly break an existing lock older than a certain time

       -r, --retry[=RETRIES]
              retry the lock a few times

       -u, --[no-]unlock
              unlock

              Global debugging settings

       --debug-level=LEVEL
              set Mailutils debugging level

       --[no-]debug-line-info show source info with debugging messages

              Configuration handling

       --config-file=FILE
              load this configuration file; implies --no-config

       --config-lint
              check configuration file syntax and exit

       --config-verbose
              verbosely log parsing of the configuration files

       --no-config
              do not load site and user configuration files

       --no-site-config
              do not load site-wide configuration file

       --no-user-config
              do not load user configuration file

       --set=PARAM=VALUE
              set configuration parameter

              Informational options

       --config-help
              show configuration file summary

       --show-config-options
              show compilation options

       -?, --help
              give this help list

       --usage
              give a short usage message

       -V, --version
              print program version

       Mandatory  or  optional arguments to long options are also mandatory or optional for any corre‐
       sponding short options.

       Returns 0 on success, 3 if locking the file fails because it's already locked, and  1  if  some
       other kind of error occurred.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <bug-mailutils@gnu.org>.
       GNU Mailutils home page: <http://mailutils.org>
       General help using GNU software: <http://www.gnu.org/gethelp/>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright  ©  2007-2017  Free  Software  Foundation, inc.  License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or
       later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>
       This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is  NO  WARRANTY,  to
       the extent permitted by law.

SEE ALSO
       The  complete  GNU mailutils documentation is maintained as a Texinfo manual. If the mailutils-
       doc package is installed, the command

              info mailutils

       should give you access to the complete manual.
       You can also find this manual online in the GNU mailutils webpage:
       https://www.gnu.org/software/mailutils/manual/index.html.
       Please note this manpage was automatically generated by the Debian mailutils packagers. Do  not
       file bugs for its content to the GNU Mailutils upstream authors.

FSF                                          November 2017                        DOTLOCK.MAILUTILS(1)
