DVIPDFMX(1)                                                                      General Commands Manual                                                                      DVIPDFMX(1)

NAME
       dvipdfmx, xdvipdfmx, dvipdfm - produce PDF files directly from DVI files

SYNOPSIS
       dvipdfmx or dvipdfm [options] file[.dvi]

DESCRIPTION
       The program dvipdfmx generates a PDF file from a DVI file.  DVI files are the output produced by TeX.  groff can also generate DVI files using grodvi(-Tdvi).

       In TeX Live, dvipdfm is another incarnation of dvipdfmx rather than a separate program.  Compatibility is attempted as best as possible.

       In addition, xdvipdfmx is yet another incarnation.  It is used as the back end for xetex(1) and is not intended to be invoked directly.

       dvipdfmx  recognizes  several commonly used \special commands, which are extensions to the DVI format.  Specifically, it understands color specials, papersize specials, tpic spe‐
       cials (which allow it to be used with pic), hypertex specials, and some PostScript specials.  These extensions allow documents to contain color,  figures,  and  hyperlinks.   The
       program  tries  to mimic the behavior of dvips where possible, so that many macro packages produced for use with dvips will also work with dvipdfmx.  In addition, Dvipdfmx under‐
       stands its own specific \special commands to allow access to PDF features such as annotations and bookmarks.

       Unrecognized specials will generate warning messages. Packages that may need a dvipdfm or dvipdfmx driver option include geometry, hyperref, bookmark, graphicx, and xcolor.

       For issues related to bounding boxes (and hence image sizes), see extractbb(1).

OPTIONS
       Unlike with many other programs, argument values must be separated from option names by a space, not an = sign; option names cannot be abbreviated; and - and --  cannot  be  used
       interchangeably.

       -c   Ignore  (or  accept)  color  \specials.  By default, color \specials are interpreted normally (changeable in the configuration file).  The -c option may be used to produce a
            black and white document from a document containing color TeX \special commands.

       --dvipdfm
            Enable dvipdfm emulation mode.  This is the default if the executable name is `dvipdfm'.

       -d number
            Specify the number of decimal digits in the PDF output; must be between 0 and 5, default is 2.

       -e   Ignored, for (semi-)compatibility with dvipdfm.

       -f map_file
            Read the font map file given by map_file.  The default map file in TeX Live is pdftex.map, as defined in the configuration file.  --help Show a help message  and  exit  suc‐
            cessfully.

       -l   Select landscape mode.  In other words, exchange the x and y dimensions of the paper.

       -m  mag
            Magnify the input document by mag.

       -o  filename
            Set the PDF output file name; use `-' for stdout.  By default, the name of the output file is derived from the input, that is, file.pdf.

       -p  paper
            Select the papersize by name (e.g., letter, legal, ledger, tabloid, a3, a4, or a5 )

       -q   Quiet mode.

       -r  size
            Set resolution of bitmapped fonts to size dots per inch.  Bitmapped fonts are generated by the Kpathsea library, which uses Metafont.  Bitmapped fonts are included as Type 3
            fonts in the PDF output file.  Default is 600.

       -s  page_specifications
            Select the pages of the DVI file to be processed; default is `-', meaning all pages.  The page_specifications consists of a comma separated list of page_ranges:
            page_specifications := page_specification[,page_specifications]
            where
            page_specification := single_page|page_range
            page_range := [first_page]-[last_page]
            An empty first_page is treated as the first page of the DVI file, and an empty last_page is treated as the last page of the DVI file.

            Examples:

            -s 1,3,5
                 includes pages 1, 3, and 5;

            -s - includes all pages;

            -s -,-
                 includes two copies of all pages in the DVI file; and

            -s 1-10
                 includes the first ten pages of the DVI file.

       -t   Search for thumbnail images of each page in the directory named by the TMPDIR environment variable.  The thumbnail images must be named in a specific format: the  same  base
            name  as the DVI file and the page number as the extension to the file name.  dvipdfmx does not generate such thumbnails itself, but it is distributed with a wrapper program
            named dvipdft that does so.

       --version
            Show a help message and exit successfully.

       -v   Increase verbosity.  Results of the -v option are cumulative (e.g., -vv increases the verbosity by two increments).  Maximum verbosity is four.

       --kpathsea-debug number
            Have Kpathsea output debugging information; `-1' for everything (voluminous).

       -x x_offset
            Set the left margin to x_offset.  The default left margin is 1.0in.  The dimension may be specified in any units understood by TeX (e.g., bp, pt, in, cm).

       -y y_offset
            Set the top margin to y_offset.  The default top margin is 1.0in.  The dimension may be specified in any units understood by TeX (e.g., bpt, pt, in, cm).

       -z number
            Set the compression level to compression_level.  Compression levels range from 0 (no compression) to 9 (maximum compression) and correspond to the values understood by zlib;
            default is 9.

       -C number
            Miscellaneous option flags; see the --help output for details.

       -D template
            PostScript to PDF conversion command line template; the default is taken from the configuration file, which also gives all the details and mentions several possibilities.

       -E   Always try to embed fonts, ignoring licensing flags, etc.

       -I number
            Image  cache  life  in  hours;  default is -2, meaning to not cache images at all.  A value of -1 means to erase all old images and also new images; 0 means to erase all old
            images but leave new images.

       -K number
            Encryption key length; default 40.

       -M   Process MetaPost PostScript output.

       -O number
            Set maximum depth of open bookmark items; default 0.

       -P number
            Set permission flags for PDF encryption; default 0x003C.

       -S   Enable PDF encryption.

       -V number
            Set PDF minor version; default 5 (from the configuration file).

IMAGE BOUNDING BOXES
       When including images with dvipdfmx, their bounding boxes should be generated by running extractbb.  The result will be in an .xbb file; the xbb information is the  same  as  for
       the PDF format.

ENVIRONMENT
       dvipdfmx  uses  the  kpathsea library for locating the files that it opens.  Hence, the environment variables documented in the Kpathsea library documentation influence dvipdfmx.
       It also uses the value of the environment variable TMPDIR as the directory to search for thumbnail images of each page.

FILES
       The precise location of the following files is determined by the Kpathsea library configuration.  The location may be determined by using kpsewhich, e.g.,
       kpsewhich -progname=dvipdfmx -format='other text files' dvipdfmx.cfg

       dvipdfmx.cfg
            Default configuration file

       pdftex.map
            The default font map file (this may be changed in the config file).

       *.tfm
            TeX font metrics

       *.vf TeX virtual font files

       *.pfb
            PostScript Type 1 font files

       texmf.cnf
            The Kpathsea library configuration file.  The location of this file may be found by typing
            kpsewhich texmf.cnf

SEE ALSO
       dvipdft(1), extractbb(1), tex(1), dvips(1), groff(1), grodvi(1), pic(1), and the Kpathsea library Info documentation (http://tug.org/kpathsea).

AUTHOR
       Primarily Mark A. Wicks; dvipdfmx extensions primarily by Jin-Hwan Cho, Shunsaku Hirata, and Matthias Franz.  For the version in TeX Live, all bugs and other reports should go to
       the dvipdfmx maintainers at tex-k (at) tug.org.  This man page edited for TeX Live by Bob Tennent and others.

                                                                                       7 March 2016                                                                           DVIPDFMX(1)
