GLIB-COMPILE-RESOU(1)                        User Commands                       GLIB-COMPILE-RESOU(1)

NAME
       glib-compile-resources - GLib resource compiler

SYNOPSIS
       glib-compile-resources [OPTION...] {FILE}

DESCRIPTION
       glib-compile-resources reads the resource description from FILE and the files that it
       references and creates a binary resource bundle that is suitable for use with the GResource
       API. The resulting bundle is then written out as-is, or as C source for linking into an
       application.

       The XML resource files normally have the filename extension .gresource.xml. For a detailed
       description of the XML file format, see the GResource documentation.

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
           Print help and exit

       --version
           Print program version and exit

       --target=TARGET
           Store the compiled resources in the file TARGET. If not specified a filename based on the
           FILE basename is used.

       --sourcedir=DIRECTORY
           The files referenced in FILE are loaded from this directory. If not specified, the current
           directory is used.

       --generate
           Write the output file in the format selected for by its filename extension:

           .c
               C source

           .h
               C header

           .gresource
               resource bundle

       --generate-source
           Instead of a writing the resource bundle in binary form create a C source file that
           contains the resource bundle. This can then be compiled into an application for easy
           access.

       --generate-header
           Generate a header file for use with C code generated by --generate-source.

       --generate-dependencies
           Prints the list of files that the resource bundle references to standard output. This can
           be used to track dependencies in the build system. For example, the following make rule
           would mark test.gresource as depending on all the files that test.gresource.xml includes,
           so that is is automatically rebuilt if any of them change:

               test.gresource: test.gresource.xml $(shell $(GLIB_COMPILE_RESOURCES) --generate-dependencies test.gresource.xml)

           Note that this may or may not be portable to non-GNU make.

           Also see --dependency-file.

       --c-name
           Specify the prefix used for the C identifiers in the code generated by --generate-source
           and --generate-header.

       --manual-register
           By default code generated by --generate-source uses automatic initialization of the
           resource. This works on most systems by using the compiler support for constructors.
           However, some (uncommon) compilers may not support this, you can then specify
           --manual-register, which will generate custom register and unregister functions that your
           code can manually call at initialization and uninitialization time.

       --internal
           By default code generated by --generate-source declares all initialization functions as
           extern. So they are exported unless this is prevented by a link script or other means.
           Since libraries usually want to use the functions only internally it can be more useful to
           declare them as G_GNUC_INTERNAL which is what --internal does.

       --external-data
           By default code generated by --generate-source embeds the resource data as a string
           literal. When --external-data is given, the data is only declared in the generated C file,
           and the data has to be linked externally.

       --dependency-file=FILE
           Write dependencies in the same style as gcc -M -MF to the given file. If FILE is -, the
           dependencies are written to the standard output. Unlike --generate-dependencies, this
           option can be combined with other --generate options to generate dependencies as a
           side-effect of generating sources.

       --generate-phony-targets
           When creating a dependency file with --dependency-file include phony targets in the same
           style as gcc -MP. This would typically be used with make.

ENVIRONMENT
       XMLLINT
           The full path to the xmllint executable. This is used to preprocess resources with the
           xml-stripblanks preprocessing option. If this environment variable is not set, xmllint is
           searched for in the PATH.

       GDK_PIXBUF_PIXDATA
           The full path to the gdk-pixbuf-pixdata executable. This is used to preprocess resources
           with the to-pixdata preprocessing option. If this environment variable is not set,
           gdk-pixbuf-pixdata is searched for in the PATH.

       JSON_GLIB_FORMAT
           The full path to the json-glib-format executable. This is used to preprocess resources with
           the json-stripblanks preprocessing option. If this environment variable is not set,
           json-glib-format is searched for in the PATH.

GIO                                                                              GLIB-COMPILE-RESOU(1)
