GNUNET-SETUP(1)                        General Commands Manual                        GNUNET-SETUP(1)

NAME
       gnunet-setup - a gtk interface for configuring GNUnet

SYNOPSIS
       gnunet-setup [OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION
       gnunet-setup is a gtk+ based GUI for configuring GNUnet.

       The  first  time  you run gnunet-setup, the goal will typically be to configure the peer, that
       is, the set of processes that always run in the background.  Those  processes  should  run  as
       user  "gnunet"  and  thus  gnunet-setup should be run as user "gnunet" for this step.  Use the
       "-e" option to enable automatic privilege escalation using gksu (if supported by your system).
       Alternatively,  you  can  of  course run gnunet-setup from the "gnunet" system user account or
       even as "root".  If you see a tab "General", you did start gnunet-setup correctly to configure
       the  peer.  You should now be able to configure which subsystems of GNUnet you want to enable,
       which databases to use and what your network configuration looks like.  After these steps  are
       complete, you should be able to start your peer using "gnunet-arm".

       It is recommended that "/etc/gnunet.conf" should be a world-readable copy of the peer's GNUnet
       configuration.  Note that GNUnet configuration files (as generated by gnunet-setup) only  con‐
       tain  those values that differ from the defaults.  Also note that "gnunet-arm" will by default
       look for a configuration in "$HOME/.config/gnunet.conf" (or, "$XDG_CONFIG_DIR/gnunet.conf"  if
       "$XDG_CONFIG_DIR"  is  set); thus, if your configuration is in "/etc/gnunet.conf", you have to
       pass "-c /etc/gnunet.conf" to gnunet-arm or set "$XDG_CONFIG_DIR" to "/etc/".

       -a, --autoconfig
              try to automatically configure networking for the peer without starting the interactive
              GUI

       -c FILENAME, --config=FILENAME
              load config file (default: ~/.config/gnunet.conf)

       -e, --elevate-privileges
              Try  to  elevate privileges to run gnunet-setup as user "gnunet".   This option is only
              available if libgksu-support was found on your system.  It is ignored  if  gnunet-setup
              is run as user "root" or "gnunet" already.  If "gksu" fails, gnunet-setup is run as the
              current user.

       -h, --help
              print help page

       -v, --version
              print the version number

NOTES
       Many options in gnunet-setup are documented online. Access the online help by first  selecting
       the respective widget and then clicking on the link at the bottom of the dialog.

       Exiting  gnunet-setup (by closing the window or pressing ESCape) always saves the current con‐
       figuration to disk.

FILES
       ~/.config/gnunet.conf
              User's GNUnet configuration file

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs by using mantis  <https://gnunet.org/bugs/>  or  by  sending  electronic  mail  to
       <gnunet-developers@gnu.org>

SEE ALSO
       gnunet-arm(1), gnunet.conf(5)

GNUnet                                       25 Oct 2012                              GNUNET-SETUP(1)
