grokevt-addlog(1)                                                                                                                grokevt-addlog(1)

NAME
       grokevt-addlog - A tool for adding a raw event log to an existing GrokEVT database.

SYNOPSIS
       grokevt-addlog  database-dir  evt-file new-type base-type .SH DESCRIPTION grokevt-addlog takes a raw event log (.evt file) and adds it to a
       pre-built database generated by grokevt-builddb(1). This new log file will be set up to use the message templates of another log, as deter‐
       mined by the user.

       This  tool  is  primarily  useful for processing deleted logs and log fragments found on a system. While it is possible to use the database
       generated from one system with the logs of another, this is not recommended for investigations unless no alternatives exist.

ARGUMENTS
       grokevt-addlog uses the following arguments:

       database-dir
              The base directory for the database generated previously by grokevt-builddb(1).

       evt-file
              The file to be added to the database.

       new-type
              The new log type/name that evt-file will take on.  This is the name that will need to be  used  later  with  grokevt-parselog(1)  to
              access the new log. This type must not already exist in the database.

       base-type
              The  existing  log  type that this new log will be based on. The message templates from this type will be used with the new log when
              parsing. This type must exist in the current database.

BUGS
       Probably several. This particular script has not been extensively tested.

CREDITS
       Written by Timothy D. Morgan.

       Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Timothy D. Morgan

LICENSE
       Please see the file "LICENSE" included with this software distribution.

       This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY  WARRANTY;  without  even  the  implied  warranty  of  MER‐
       CHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License version 2 for more details.

SEE ALSO
       grokevt(7) grokevt-builddb(1) grokevt-dumpmsgs(1) grokevt-findlogs(1) grokevt-parselog(1) grokevt-ripdll(1)

File Conversion Utilities                                          20 March 2008                                                 grokevt-addlog(1)
