HWLOC-COMPRESS-DIR(1)                                                  hwloc                                                 HWLOC-COMPRESS-DIR(1)

NAME
       hwloc-compress-dir - Compress a directory of XML topologies

SYNOPSIS
       hwloc-compress-dir [options] <inputdir> <outputdir>

OPTIONS
       -R --reverse
              Uncompress a previously compressed directory.

       -v --verbose
              Display verbose messages.

DESCRIPTION
       hwloc-compress-dir  takes an input directory containing XML exports and tries to compress it by computing topology diffs between them (with
       the hwloc-diff program).  Each file is copied in the output directory either as a diff if it could be compressed, or as its original entire
       file otherwise.

       hwloc-compress-dir  may  recompress  a  directory that was previously compressed. All input files that are already in the output directory,
       either compressed or not, are ignored. New input files are compressed as much as possible as usual.

       For each file of the directory, the output filename is the same as the original if not compressed, otherwise its extension  is  changed  to
       .diff.xml.

       Compressed files are based on another non-compressed topology.  Its name is stored in the refname topology diff attribute.

       The generated output diff files may be used with hwloc-patch just like any file generated by hwloc-diff.

EXAMPLES
       To compress the input files from directory in into directory out:

           $ hwloc-compress-dir in out

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful execution, hwloc-compress-dir returns 0.

       hwloc-compress-dir will return nonzero if any kind of error occurs, such as (but not limited to) failure to parse the command line.

SEE ALSO
       hwloc(7), lstopo(1), hwloc-diff(1), hwloc-patch(1)

1.11.2                                                             Dec 17, 2015                                              HWLOC-COMPRESS-DIR(1)
