ISC-HMAC-FIXUP(8)                                                                                   BIND9                                                                                   ISC-HMAC-FIXUP(8)



NAME
       isc-hmac-fixup - fixes HMAC keys generated by older versions of BIND

SYNOPSIS
       isc-hmac-fixup {algorithm} {secret}

DESCRIPTION
       Versions of BIND 9 up to and including BIND 9.6 had a bug causing HMAC-SHA* TSIG keys which were longer than the digest length of the hash algorithm (i.e., SHA1 keys longer than 160 bits, SHA256
       keys longer than 256 bits, etc) to be used incorrectly, generating a message authentication code that was incompatible with other DNS implementations.

       This bug has been fixed in BIND 9.7. However, the fix may cause incompatibility between older and newer versions of BIND, when using long keys.  isc-hmac-fixup modifies those keys to restore
       compatibility.

       To modify a key, run isc-hmac-fixup and specify the key's algorithm and secret on the command line. If the secret is longer than the digest length of the algorithm (64 bytes for SHA1 through SHA256,
       or 128 bytes for SHA384 and SHA512), then a new secret will be generated consisting of a hash digest of the old secret. (If the secret did not require conversion, then it will be printed without
       modification.)

SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
       Secrets that have been converted by isc-hmac-fixup are shortened, but as this is how the HMAC protocol works in operation anyway, it does not affect security. RFC 2104 notes, "Keys longer than [the
       digest length] are acceptable but the extra length would not significantly increase the function strength."

SEE ALSO
       BIND 9 Administrator Reference Manual, RFC 2104.

AUTHOR
       Internet Systems Consortium, Inc.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2010, 2013-2015 Internet Systems Consortium, Inc. ("ISC")



ISC                                                                                               2013-04-28                                                                                ISC-HMAC-FIXUP(8)
