IWEVENT(8)                Linux Programmer's Manual                IWEVENT(8)

NAME
       iwevent  -  Display  Wireless  Events generated by drivers and setting
       changes

SYNOPSIS
       iwevent

DESCRIPTION
       iwevent  displays  Wireless  Events  received  through  the  RTNetlink
       socket. Each line displays the specific Wireless Event which describes
       what has happened on the specified wireless interface.
       This command doesn't take any arguments.

DISPLAY
       There are two classes of Wireless Events.

       The first class is events related to a change of wireless settings  on
       the  interface  (typically  done  through iwconfig or a script calling
       iwconfig).  Only settings that could result in a disruption of connec‐
       tivity are reported. The events currently reported are changing one of
       the following setting :
            Network ID
            ESSID
            Frequency
            Mode
            Encryption
       All those events will be generated on all wireless interfaces  by  the
       kernel  wireless  subsystem (but only if the driver has been converted
       to the new driver API).

       The second class of events are events generated by the hardware,  when
       something happens or a task has been finished. Those events include :

       New Access Point/Cell address
              The  interface has joined a new Access Point or Ad-Hoc Cell, or
              lost its association with it. This is the same address that  is
              reported by iwconfig.

       Scan request completed
              A  scanning request has been completed, results of the scan are
              available (see iwlist).

       Tx packet dropped
              A packet directed at this address has been dropped because  the
              interface  believes  this  node doesn't answer anymore (usually
              maximum of MAC level retry exceeded). This is usually an  early
              indication  that the node may have left the cell or gone out of
              range, but it may be due to fading or excessive contention.

       Custom driver event
              Event specific to the driver. Please check the driver  documen‐
              tation.

       Registered node
              The  interface  has  successfully  registered  a  new  wireless
              client/peer. Will be generated mostly when the  interface  acts
              as an Access Point (mode Master).

       Expired node
              The  registration  of  the  client/peer  on  this interface has
              expired. Will be generated mostly when the interface acts as an
              Access Point (mode Master).

       Spy threshold crossed
              The  signal  strength  for one of the addresses in the spy list
              went under the low threshold or went above the high threshold.

       Most wireless drivers generate only a subset of those events, not  all
       of them, the exact list depends on the specific hardware/driver combi‐
       nation. Please refer to driver documentation for details on when  they
       are generated, and use iwlist(8) to check what the driver supports.

AUTHOR
       Jean Tourrilhes - jt@hpl.hp.com

SEE ALSO
       iwconfig(8), iwlist(8), iwspy(8), iwpriv(8), wireless(7).

net-tools                        23 June 2004                      IWEVENT(8)
