MACTIME(1)                                                    General Commands Manual                                                   MACTIME(1)

NAME
       mactime - Create an ASCII time line of file activity

SYNOPSIS
       mactime [-b body ] [-g group file ] [-p password file ] [-i (day|hour) index file ] [-dhmVy] [-z TIME_ZONE ] [DATE_RANGE]

DESCRIPTION
       mactime  creates  an  ASCII time line of file activity based on the body file specified by '-b' or from STDIN.  The time line is written to
       STDOUT.  The body file must be in the time machine format that is created by 'ils -m', 'fls -m', or the mac-robber tool.

ARGUMENTS
       -b body
              Specify the location of a body file.  This file must be generated by a tool such as 'fls -m' or  'ils  -m'.   The  'mac-robber'  and
              'grave-robber' tools can also be used to generate the file.

       -g group file
              Specify the location of the group file.  mactime will display the group name instead of the GID if this is given.

       -p password file
              Specify the location of the passwd file.  mactime will display the user name instead of the UID of this is given.

       -i day|hour index file
              Specify the location of an index file to write to.  The first argument specifies the granularity, either an hourly summary or daily.
              If the ´-d´ flag is given, then the summary will be separated by a ',' to import into a spread sheet.

       -d     Display timeline and index files in comma delimited format.  This is used to import the data into a spread sheet  for  presentations
              or graphs.

       -h     Display header info about the session including time range, input source, and passwd or group files.

       -V     Display version to STDOUT.

       -m     The month is given as a number instead of name (does not work with -y).

       -y     The date is displayed in ISO8601 format.

       -z TIME_ZONE
              The  timezone  from  where the data was collected.  The name of this argument is system dependent (examples include EST5EDT, GMT+1).
              Does not work with -y.

       -z list
              List valid timezones.

       DATE_RANGE
              The range of dates to make the time line for.  The standard format is yyyy-mm-dd for a starting date and no ending date. For an end‐
              ing date, use yyyy-mm-dd..yyyy-mm-dd.  Date can contain time, use format yyyy-mm-ddThh:mm:ss for starting and/or ending date.

LICENSE
       The  changes  from  mactime  in  TCT and mac-daddy are distributed under the Common Public License, found in the cpl1.0.txt file in the The
       Sleuth Kit licenses directory.

HISTORY
       A version of mactime first appeared in The Coroner's Toolkit (TCT) (Dan Farmer) and later mac-daddy (Rob Lee).

AUTHOR
       Brian Carrier <carrier at sleuthkit dot org>

       Send documentation updates to <doc-updates at sleuthkit dot org>

                                                                                                                                        MACTIME(1)
