
opadisableports(8)                                                                          IFSFFCLIRG (Man Page)                                                                          opadisableports(8)



NAME
       opadisableports



       (Linux)  Accepts  a  CSV  file  listing  links  to  disable. For each HFI-SW link, the switch side of the link is disabled. For each SW-SW link, the switch port closer to this node is disabled. This
       approach generally permits a future opaenableports operation to re-enable the port once the issue is corrected or ready to be retested. The  list  of  disabled  ports  is  tracked  in  /etc/opa/dis‐
       abled*.csv.

Syntax
       opadisableports [-R] [-h hfi] [-p port] [ reason] < disable.csv

Options
       --help    Produces full help text.


       -R        Does  not  attempt to get routes for computation of distance. Instead, it disables the port of the switch with the lower LID (which is often the side closest to the SM) assuming that it is
                 closer to this node.


       -h hfi    Specifies the HFI, numbered 1..n. Using 0 specifies that the -p port port is a system-wide port number. Default is 0.


       -p port   Specifies the port, numbered 1..n. Using 0 specifies the first active port. Default is 0.


       reason    Specifies optional text describing why ports are being disabled. If used, text is saved in the reason field of the output file.


       disable.csv
                 Specifies the input file listing the links to disable. The list is of the form: NodeGUID;PortNum;NodeType;NodeDesc;NodeGUID;PortNum; NodeType;NodeDesc;Reason


                 The reason field is optional. An input file such as this can be generated by using opaextractbadlinks, opaextractmissinglinks, or opaextractsellinks.

       Information about the links disabled and the reason is saved (in the same format) to an output file named /etc/opa/disabled:hfi:port.csv where the hfi:port part of the file name is replaced  by  the
       HFI number and the port number being operated on (such as 1:1 or 2:1). This CSV file can be used as input to opaenableports.


-h and -p options permit a variety of selections:
       -h 0      First active port in system (Default).


       -h 0 -p 0 First active port in system.


       -h x      First active port on HFI x.


       -h x -p 0 First active port on HFI x.


       -h 0 -p y Port y within system (no matter which ports are active).


       -h x -p y HFI x, port y.


Examples
       opadisableports 'bad cable' < disable.csv
       opadisableports -h 1 -p 1 'dead servers' < disable.csv
       opaextractsellinks -F lid:3 | opadisableports 'bad server'
       opaextractmissinglinks -T /etc/opa/topology.0:0.xml | opadisableports



Copyright(C) 2015-2018                                                                        Intel Corporation                                                                            opadisableports(8)
