PAM_TIMESTAMP_CHECK(8)                                           Linux-PAM Manual                                           PAM_TIMESTAMP_CHECK(8)

NAME
       pam_timestamp_check - Check to see if the default timestamp is valid

SYNOPSIS
       pam_timestamp_check [-k] [-d] [target_user]

DESCRIPTION
       With no arguments pam_timestamp_check will check to see if the default timestamp is valid, or optionally remove it.

OPTIONS
       -k
           Instead of checking the validity of a timestamp, remove it. This is analogous to sudo's -k option.

       -d
           Instead of returning validity using an exit status, loop indefinitely, polling regularly and printing the status on standard output.

       target_user
           By default pam_timestamp_check checks or removes timestamps generated by pam_timestamp when the user authenticates as herself. When the
           user authenticates as a different user, the name of the timestamp file changes to accommodate this.  target_user allows to specify this
           user name.

RETURN VALUES
       0
           The timestamp is valid.

       2
           The binary is not setuid root.

       3
           Invalid invocation.

       4
           User is unknown.

       5
           Permissions error.

       6
           Invalid controlling tty.

       7
           Timestamp is not valid.

NOTES
       Users can get confused when they are not always asked for passwords when running a given program. Some users reflexively begin typing
       information before noticing that it is not being asked for.

EXAMPLES
           auth sufficient pam_timestamp.so verbose
           auth required   pam_unix.so

           session required pam_unix.so
           session optional pam_timestamp.so

FILES
       /var/run/sudo/...
           timestamp files and directories

SEE ALSO
       pam_timestamp_check(8), pam.conf(5), pam.d(5), pam(8)

AUTHOR
       pam_tally was written by Nalin Dahyabhai.

Linux-PAM Manual                                                    09/19/2013                                              PAM_TIMESTAMP_CHECK(8)
