pcimodules(8)                Linux PCI Utilities                pcimodules(8)

NAME
       pcimodules  -  List  kernel driver modules available for all currently
       plugged in PCI devices

SYNOPSIS
       pcimodules [--classclass_id] [--classmaskmask] [--help]

DESCRIPTION
       pcimodules lists all driver modules for all currently plugged  in  PCI
       devices.   pcimodules  should  be run at boot time, and whenever a PCI
       device is "hot plugged" into the system.  This can be done by the fol‐
       lowing Bourne shell syntax:

                   for module in $(pcimodules) ; do

                        modprobe -s "$module"

                   done

       When  a  PCI  device is removed from the system, the Linux kernel will
       decrement a usage count on PCI driver module.  If this count drops  to
       zero  (i.e.,  there  are no PCI drivers), then the modprobe -r process
       that is normally configured to run from cron every  few  minutes  will
       eventually remove the unneeded module.

       The  --class and --classmask arguments can be used to limit the search
       to certain classes of PCI devices.  This is useful,  for  example,  to
       generate  a list of ethernet card drivers to be loaded when the kernel
       has indicated that it is trying to resolve an unknown  network  inter‐
       face.

       Modules  are  listed  in the order in which the PCI devices are physi‐
       cally arranged so that the computer owner can arrange things like hav‐
       ing  scsi  device  0 be on a controller that is not alphabetically the
       first scsi controller.

OPTIONS
       --class class --classmask mask

       --class and --classmask limit the search to PCI  cards  in  particular
       classes.   These arguments are always used together.  The arguments to
       --class and --classmask can be given as hexadecimal numbers by prefix‐
       ing  a  leading "0x".  Note that the classes used by pcimodules are in
       "Linux" format, meaning the class value that you see with lspci  would
       be  shifted  left  eight bits, with the new low eight bits programming
       interface ID.  An examples of how to use class and classmask  is  pro‐
       vided below.  --help, -h Print a help message and exit.

EXAMPLES
       pcimodules
              lists  all  modules  corresponding  to currently plugged in PCI
              devices.

       pcimodules --class 0x20000 --classmask 0xffff00
              lists all modules corresponding to currently plugged in  ether‐
              net PCI devices.

FILES
       /lib/modules/<kernel-version>/modules.pcimap
              This  file  is  automatically  generated by depmod, and used by
              pcimodules to determine which modules correspond to  which  PCI
              ID's.

       /proc/bus/pci
              An  interface  to  PCI  bus configuration space provided by the
              post-2.1.82 Linux kernels. Contains per-bus subdirectories with
              per-card  config  space  files  and a devices file containing a
              list of all PCI devices.

SEE ALSO
       lspci(8)

MAINTAINER
       The Linux PCI Utilities are maintained by Martin Mares <mj@suse.cz>.

AUTHOR
       pcimodules was written by Adam J. Richter <adam@yggdrasil.com>,  based
       on public domain example code by Martin Mares <mj@suse.cz>.

COPYRIGHT
       pcimodules  is  copyright 2000, Yggdrasil Computing, Incorporated, and
       may be copied under the terms and conditions of version 2 of  the  GNU
       General  Public  License  as published by the Free Software Foundation
       (Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States of America).

pciutils-3.5.2                 03 October 2016                  pcimodules(8)
