PSAD(8)                                                       System Manager's Manual                                                      PSAD(8)

NAME
       psad - The Port Scan Attack Detector

SYNOPSIS
       psad [options]

DESCRIPTION
       psad  makes use of iptables log messages to detect, alert, and (optionally) block port scans and other suspect traffic.  For TCP scans psad
       analyzes TCP flags to determine the scan type (syn, fin, xmas, etc.) and corresponding command line options that could be supplied to  nmap
       to  generate such a scan.  In addition, psad makes use of many TCP, UDP, and ICMP signatures contained within the Snort intrusion detection
       system (see http://www.snort.org/) to detect suspicious network traffic such as probes for common backdoors, DDoS tools, OS  fingerprinting
       attempts, and more.  By default psad also provides alerts for snort rules that are detected directly by iptables through the use of a rule‐
       set generated by fwsnort (http://www.cipherdyne.org/fwsnort/).  This enables psad to send alerts for application layer attacks.  psad  fea‐
       tures  a set of highly configurable danger thresholds (with sensible defaults provided) that allow the administrator to define what consti‐
       tutes a port scan or other suspect traffic.  Email alerts sent by psad contain the scanning ip, number of packets sent to  each  port,  any
       TCP,  UDP,  or  ICMP signatures that have been matched (e.g. "NMAP XMAS scan"), the scanned port range, the current danger level (from 1 to
       5), reverse dns info, and whois information.  psad also makes use of various packet header fields associated with TCP SYN packets  to  pas‐
       sively  fingerprint  remote operating systems (in a manner similar to the p0f fingerprinter) from which scans originate.  This requires the
       use of the --log-tcp-options argument for iptables logging rules; if this option is not used, psad  will  fall  back  to  a  fingerprinting
       method that makes use of packet length, TTL and TOS values, IP ID, and TCP window sizes.

       psad  reads all iptables log data by default from the /var/log/messages file.  By parsing firewall log messages, psad is provided with data
       that represents packets that have been logged (and possibly dropped) by the running iptables policy.  In this sense, psad is supplied  with
       a  pure data stream that exclusively contains packets that the firewall has deemed unfit to enter the network.  psad consists of three dae‐
       mons: psad, kmsgsd, and psadwatchd.  psad is responsible for processing all packets that have been logged by the firewall and applying  the
       signature  logic  in order to determine what type of scan has been leveraged against the machine and/or network.  kmsgsd (deprecated) reads
       all messages that have been written to the /var/lib/psad/psadfifo named pipe and writes any  message  that  matches  a  particular  regular
       expression  (or  string)  to /var/log/psad/fwdata.  kmsgsd is only used if the ENABLE_SYSLOG_FILE variable is disabled in psad.conf.  psad‐
       watchd is a software watchdog that will restart any of the other two daemons should a daemon die for any reason.

OPTIONS
       -A, --Analyze-msgs
              Analyze an iptables logfile for scans and exit.  This will generate email alerts just as a normal running psad  process  would  have
              for  all  logged  scans.   By default the psad data file /var/log/psad/fwdata is parsed for old scans, but any file can be specified
              through the use of the --messages-file command line option.  For example it might be useful to point psad at your  /var/log/messages
              file.

       --analysis-fields <search fields>
              In  --Analyze  mode  restrict  analysis  to iptables log messages that have specific values for particular fields.  Examples include
              "SRC:1.2.3.4", "DST:10.0.0.0/24, and "TTL:64", and multiple fields are  supported  as  a  comma-separated  list  like  "SRC:1.2.3.4,
              LEN:44, DST:10.0.0.0/24".

       -i, --interface <interface>
              Specify  the  interface that psad will examine for iptables log messages.  This interface will be the IN= interface for packets that
              are logged in the INPUT and FORWARD chains, and the OUT= interface for packets logged in the OUTPUT chain.

       --sig-update
              Instruct psad to download the latest set of modified Snort signatures from http://www.cipherdyne.org/psad/signatures  so  that  psad
              can take advantage of signature updates before a new release is made.

       -O, --Override-config <file>
              Override  config variable values that are normally read from the /etc/psad/psad.conf file with values from the specified file.  Mul‐
              tiple override config files can be given as a comma separated list.

       -D, --Dump-conf
              Dump the current psad config to STDOUT and exit.  Various pieces of information such as the home network, alert email addresses, and
              DShield user id are removed from the resulting output so it is safe to send to others.

       -F, --Flush
              Remove  any  auto-generated  firewall  block rules if psad was configured to automatically respond to scans (see the ENABLE_AUTO_IDS
              variable in psad.conf).

       -S, --Status
              Display the status of any psad processes that may or not be running.  The status output contains a listing of the number of  packets
              that have been processed by psad, along with all IP addresses and corresponding danger levels that have scanned the network.

       --status-ip <ip>
              Display  status  information  associated with ip such as the protocol packet counters as well as the last 10 packets logged by ipta‐
              bles.

       --status-dl <dl>
              Display status information only for scans that have reached a danger level of at least dl

       --status-summary
              Instruct psad to omit detailed IP information from --Status and --Analyze modes.

       -m, --messages-file <file>
              This option is used to specify the file that will be parsed in analysis mode (see the --Analyze-msgs option).  The default  path  is
              the psad data file /var/log/psad/fwdata.

       --CSV  Instruct  psad to parse iptables log messages out of /var/log/messages (by defult, but this path can be changed with the -m option),
              and print the packet fields on STDOUT in comma-separate value format.  This is useful for graphing iptables log data with  AfterGlow
              (see http://afterglow.sourceforge.net/index.html).

       --stdin
              Acquire iptables log data from STDIN instead of the default /var/log/messages file.

       --CSV-fields <tokens>
              Instruct  psad  to  only include a specific set of iptables log message fields within the CSV output.  AfterGlow accepts up to three
              fields for its graph data, so the most common usage of this option is "src dst dp" to print the source and destination IP addresses,
              and the destination port number.

       -K, --Kill
              Kill the current psad process along with psadwatchd and kmsgsd.  This provides a quick and easy way to kill all psad processes with‐
              out having to look in the process table or appeal to the psad-init script.

       -R, --Restart
              Restart the currently running psad processes.  This option will preserve the command line options that were supplied to the original
              psad process.

       -U, --USR1
              Send  a  running  psad  process  a  USR1  signal.   This  will  cause  psad  to  dump  the  contents  of  the %Scan hash to the file
              "/var/log/psad/scan_hash.$$" where "$$" represents the pid of the psad process.  This is mostly useful for debugging  purposes,  but
              it  also  allows  the  administrator to peer into the %Scan hash, which is the primary data structure used to store scan data within
              system memory.

       -H, --HUP
              Send all running psad daemons a HUP signal.  This will instruct the daemons to re-read their respective configuration files  without
              causing scan data to be lost in the process.

       -B, --Benchmark
              Run  psad  in  benchmark mode.  By default benchmark mode will simulate a scan of 10,000 packets (see the --packets option) and then
              report the elapsed time.  This is useful to see how fast psad can process packets on a specific machine.

       -p, --packets <packets>
              Specify the number of packets to analyze in --Analyze mode or use in --Benchmark mode.  The default is 10,000 packets in --Benchmark
              mode, and unlimited in --Analyze mode.

       -d, --debug
              Run psad in debugging mode.  This will automatically prevent psad from running as a daemon, and will print the contents of the %Scan
              hash and a few other things on STDOUT at crucial points as psad executes.

       -c, --config <configuration-file>
              By default all of the psad makes use of the configuration file /etc/psad/psad.conf for almost all  configuration  parameters.   psad
              can be made to override this path by specifying a different file on the command line with the --config option.

       --signatures <signatures-file>
              The  iptables  firewalling  code included within the linux 2.4.x kernel series has the ability to distinguish and log any of the TCP
              flags present within TCP packets that traverse the firewall interfaces.  psad makes use of this logging capability to detect several
              types  of TCP scan signatures included within /etc/psad/signatures.  The signatures were originally included within the snort intru‐
              sion detection system.  New signatures can be included and modifications to existing signatures can be made to  the  signature  file
              and  psad will import the changes upon receiving a HUP signal (see the --HUP command line option) without having to restart the psad
              process.  psad also detects many UDP and ICMP signatures that were originally included within snort.

       -e, --email-analysis
              Send alert emails when run in --Analyze-msgs mode.  Depending on the size of the iptables logfile, using the --email-analysis option
              could  extend  the  runtime of psad by quite a bit since normally both DNS and whois lookups will be issued against each scanning IP
              address.  As usual these lookups can be disabled with the --no-rdns and --no-whois options respectively.

       -w, --whois-analysis
              By default psad does not issue whois lookups when running in --Analyze-msgs mode.  The --whois-analysis option  will  override  this
              behavior (when run in analysis mode) and instruct psad to issue whois lookups against IP addresses from which scans or other suspect
              traffic has originated.

       --analysis-auto-block
              Enable auto-blocking responses when running in --Analyze-msgs mode.  This is mostly useful only for the psad test suite  when  auto-
              blocking responses are tested and verified.

       --snort-type <type>
              Restrict  the type of snort sids to type.  Allowed types match the file names given to snort rules files such as "ddos", "backdoor",
              and "web-attacks".

       --snort-rdir <snort-rules-directory>
              Manually specify the directory where the snort rules files are located.  The default is /etc/psad/snort_rules.

       --passive-os-sigs <passive-os-sigs-file>
              Manually specify the path to the passive operating system fingerprinting signatures file.  The default is /etc/psad/posf.

       --auto-dl <auto-dl-file>
              Occasionally certain IP addresses are repeat offenders and should automatically be given a higher danger level than  would  normally
              be  assigned.  Additionally, some IP addresses can always be ignored depending on your network configuration (the loopback interface
              127.0.0.1  might  be  a  good  candidate  for  example).   /etc/psad/auto_dl  provides  an  interface  for  psad  to   automatically
              increase/decrease/ignore  scanning  IP  danger levels.  Modifications can be made to auto_dl (installed by default in /etc/psad) and
              psad will import them with 'psad -H' or by restarting the psad process.

       --fw-search <fw_search-file>
              By default all of the psad makes use of the firewall search configuration file /etc/psad/fw_search.conf for firewall search mode and
              search  strings.   psad  can  be  made to override this path by specifying a different file on the command line with the --fw-search
              option.

       --fw-list-auto
              List all rules in iptables chains that are used by psad in auto-blocking mode.

       --fw-analyze
              Analyze the local iptables ruleset, send any alerts if errors are discovered, and then exit.

       --fw-del-chains
              By default, if ENABLE_AUTO_IDS is set to "Y" psad will not delete the auto-generated iptables chains (see  the  IPT_AUTO_CHAIN  key‐
              words  in psad.conf) if the --Flush option is given.  The --fw-del-chains option overrides this behavior and deletes the auto-block‐
              ing chains from a running iptables firewall.

       --fw-dump
              Instruct psad to dump the contents of the iptables policy that is running on the local system.  All IP addresses  are  removed  from
              the resulting output, so it is safe to post to the psad list, or communicate to others.  This option is most often used with --Dump-
              conf.

       --fw-block-ip <ip>
              Specify an IP address or network to add to the iptables controls that are auto-generated by psad.  This allows psad  to  manage  the
              rule timeouts.

       --fw-rm-block-ip <ip>
              Specify an IP address or network to remove from the iptables controls that are auto-generated by psad.

       --fw-file <policy-file>
              Analyze the iptables ruleset contained within policy-file instead of the ruleset currently loaded on the local system.

       --CSV-regex <regex>
              Instruct  psad to only print CSV data that matches the supplied regex.  This regex is used to match against each of the entire ipta‐
              bles log messages.

       --CSV-neg-regex <regex>
              Instruct psad to only print CSV data that does not match the supplied regex.  This regex is used to negatively match against each of
              the entire iptables log messages.

       --CSV-uniq-lines
              Instruct psad to only print unique CSV data.  That is, each line printed in --CSV mode will be unique.

       --CSV-max-lines <num>
              Limit  the number of CSV-formatted lines that psad generates on STDOUT.  This is useful to allow AfterGlow graphs to be created that
              are not too cluttered.

       --CSV-start-line <num>
              Specify the beginning line number to start parsing out of the iptables log file in --CSV output mode.  This is useful for  when  the
              log  file  is  extremely large, and you want to begin parsing a specific place within the file.  The default is begin parsing at the
              beginning of the file.

       --CSV-end-line <num>
              Specify the ending line number to stop parsing the iptables log file in --CSV output mode.  This is useful for when the log file  is
              extremely large, and you do not want psad to process the entire thing.

       --gnuplot
              Enter  into Gnuplot mode whereby psad parses an iptables logfile and creates .gnu and .dat files that are suitable for graphing with
              Gnuplot.  The various --CSV command line arguments apply to plotting iptables log with Gnuplot.

       --gnuplot-template <file>
              Use a template file for all Gnuplot graphing directives (this is usually a .gnu file by convention).  Normally psad  builds  all  of
              the  graphing directives based on various --gnuplot command line arguments, but the --gnuplot-template switch allows you to override
              this behavior.

       --gnuplot-file-prefix <file>
              Specify a prefix for the .gnu, .dat, and .png files that are generated in --gnuplot mode.  So, when visualizing attacks captured  in
              an  iptables  logfile  (let's  say  you  are  interested in port scans), you could use this option to have psad create the two files
              portscan.dat, portscan.gnu, and Gnuplot will create an additional file portscan.png when the portscan.gnu file is loaded.

       --gnuplot-x-label <label>
              Set the label associated with the x-axis.

       --gnuplot-x-range <range>
              Set the x-axis range.

       --gnuplot-y-label <label>
              Set the label associated with the y-axis.

       --gnuplot-y-range <range>
              Set the y-axis range.

       --gnuplot-z-label <label>
              Set the label associated with the z-axis (only if --gnuplot-3D is used).

       --gnuplot-z-range <range>
              Set the z-axis range. (only if --gnuplot-3D is used).

       --gnuplot-3D
              Generate a Gnuplot splot graph.  This produces a three-dimensional graph.

       --gnuplot-view
              Set the viewing angle when graphing data in --gnuplot-3D mode.

       --gnuplot-title <title>
              Set the graph title for the Gnuplot graph.

       -I, --Interval <seconds>
              Specify the interval (in seconds) that psad should use to check whether or not packets have been logged by the firewall.  psad  will
              use the default of 15 seconds unless a different value is specified.

       -l, --log-server
              This  option  should  be  used if psad is being executed on a syslog logging server.  Running psad on a logging server requires that
              check_firewall_rules() and auto_psad_response() not be executed since the firewall is probably not being run locally.

       -V, --Version
              Print the psad version and exit.

       --no-daemon
              Do not run psad as a daemon.  This option will display scan alerts on STDOUT instead of emailing them out.

       --no-ipt-errors
              Occasionally iptables messages written by syslog to /var/log/messages seem to not conform to the normal firewall logging  format  if
              the  kernel  ring  buffer  used  by  klogd becomes full.  psad will write these message to /var/log/psad/errs/fwerrorlog by default.
              Passing the --no-ipt-errors option will make psad ignore all such erroneous firewall messages.

       --no-whois
              By default psad will issue a whois query against any IP from which a scan has originated, but this can be disabled  with  the  --no-
              whois command line argument.

       --no-fwcheck
              psad  performs a rudimentary check of the firewall ruleset that exists on the machine on which psad is deployed to determine whether
              or not the firewall has a compatible configuration (i.e.  iptables has been configured to log packets).  Passing the --no-fwcheck or
              --log-server options will disable this check.

       --no-auto-dl
              Disable  auto  danger  level  assignments.   This  will  instruct  to  not  import  any  IP  addresses  or  networks  from  the file
              /etc/psad/auto_dl.

       --no-snort-sids
              Disable snort sid processing mode.  This will instruct psad to not import snort rules (for snort SID matching in a policy  generated
              by fwsnort ).

       --no-signatures
              Disable  psad  signature  processing.  Note that this is independent of snort SID matching in iptables messages generated by fwsnort
              and also from the ICMP type/code validation routines.

       --no-icmp-types
              Disable ICMP type and code field validation.

       --no-passive-os
              By default psad will attempt to passively (i.e. without sending any packets) fingerprint the remote operating system  from  which  a
              scan originates.  Passing the --no-passive-os option will disable this feature.

       --no-rdns
              psad  normally  attempts to find the name associated with a scanning IP address, but this feature can be disabled with the --no-rdns
              command line argument.

       --no-kmsgsd
              Disable startup of kmsgsd.  This option is most useful for debugging with individual iptables messages so that new messages are  not
              appended to the /var/log/psad/fwdata file.

       --no-netstat
              By  default  for iptables firewalls psad will determine whether or not your machine is listening on a port for which a TCP signature
              has been matched.  Specifying --no-netstat disables this feature.

       -h, --help
              Print a page of usage information for psad and exit.

FILES
       /etc/psad/psad.conf
              The main psad configuration file which contains configuration variables mentioned in the section below.

       /etc/psad/fw_search.conf
              Used to configure the strategy both psad and kmsgsd employ to parse iptables messages.  Using configuration  directive  within  this
              file, psad can be configured to parse all iptables messages or only those that match specific log prefix strings (see the --log-pre‐
              fix option to iptables).

       /etc/psad/signatures
              Contains the signatures psad uses to recognize nasty traffic.  The signatures are written in a manner similar to the *lib  signature
              files used in the snort IDS.

       /etc/psad/icmp_types
              Contains  all  valid ICMP types and corresponding codes as defined by RFC 792.  By default, ICMP packets are validated against these
              values and an alert will be generated if a non-matching ICMP packet is logged by iptables.

       /etc/psad/snort_rules/*.rules
              Snort rules files that are consulted by default unless the --no-snort-sids commmand line argument is given.

       /etc/psad/auto_dl
              Contains a listing of any IP addresses that should be assigned a danger level based on any traffic that is logged by  the  firewall.
              The  syntax  is  "<IP  address> <danger level>" where <danger level> is an integer from 0 to 5, with 0 meaning to ignore all traffic
              from <IP address>, and 5 is to assign the highest danger level to <IP address>.

       /etc/psad/posf
              Contains a listing of all passive operating system fingerprinting signatures.  These signatures include packet lengths, ttl, tos, IP
              ID, and TCP window size values that are specific to various operating systems.

PSAD CONFIGURATION VARIABLES
       This  section describes what each of the more important psad configuration variables do and how they can be tuned to meet your needs.  Most
       of the variables are located in the psad configuration file /etc/psad/psad.conf but  the  FW_SEARCH_ALL  and  FW_MSG_SEARCH  variables  are
       located  in  the  file  /etc/psad/fw_search.conf.   Each  variable  is assigned sensible defaults for most network architectures during the
       install process.  More information on psad config keywords may be found at: http://www.cipherdyne.org/psad/config.html

       EMAIL_ADDRESSES
              Contains a comma-separated list of email addresses to which email alerts will be sent.  The default is "root@localhost".

       HOSTNAME
              Defines the hostname of the machine on which psad is running. This will be used in the email alerts generated by psad.

       HOME_NET
              Define the internal network(s) that are connected to the local system.  This will be used in the signature matching code  to  deter‐
              mine  whether  traffic  matches  snort rules, which invariably contain a source and destination network.  Multiple networks are sup‐
              ported as a comma separated list, and each network should be specified in CIDR notation.  Normally the network(s) contained  in  the
              HOME_NET variable should be directly connected to the machine that is running psad.

       IMPORT_OLD_SCANS
              Preserve  scan  data across restarts of psad or even across reboots of the machine.  This is accomplished by importing the data con‐
              tained in the filesystem cache psad writes to during normal operation back into memory as psad is  started.   The  filesystem  cache
              data in contained within the directory /var/log/psad.

       FW_SEARCH_ALL
              Defines  the  search  mode  psad uses to parse iptables messages.  By default FW_SEARCH_ALL is set to "Y" since normally most people
              want all iptables log messages to be parsed for scan activity.  However, if FW_SEARCH_ALL is set to "N", psad will only parse  those
              iptables  log  messages that match certain search strings that appear in iptables logs with the --log-prefix option.  This is useful
              for restricting psad to only operate on specific iptables chains or rules.  The strings that will be searched for are  defined  with
              the FW_MSG_SEARCH variable (see below).  The FW_SEARCH_ALL variable is defined in the file /etc/psad/fw_search.conf since it is ref‐
              erenced by both psad and kmsgsd.

       FW_MSG_SEARCH
              Defines a set of search strings that psad uses to identify iptables messages that should be parsed for scan activity.  These  search
              strings  should  match  the log prefix strings specified in the iptables ruleset with the --log-prefix option, and the default value
              for FW_MSG_SEARCH is "DROP".  Note that psad normally parses all iptables messages, and so the FW_MSG_SEARCH variable is only needed
              if  FW_SEARCH_ALL  (see  above)  is set to "N".  The FW_MSG_SEARCH variable is referenced by both psad and kmsgsd so it lives in the
              file /etc/psad/fw_search.conf.

       SYSLOG_DAEMON
              Define the specific syslog daemon that psad should interface with.  Psad supports three syslog daemons: syslogd, syslog-ng, and met‐
              alog.  The default value of SYSLOG_DAEMON is syslogd.

       IGNORE_PORTS
              Specify a list of port ranges and/or individual ports and corresponding protocols that psad should complete ignore.  This is partic‐
              ularly useful for ignore ports that are used as a part of a port knocking scheme (such as fwknop  http://www.cipherdyne.org/fwknop/)
              for network authentication since such log messages generated by the knock sequence may otherwise be interpreted as a scan.  Multiple
              ports and/or port ranges may be specified as a comma-separated list, e.g.  "tcp/22, tcp/61000-61356, udp/53".

       ENABLE_PERSISTENCE
              If "Y", psad will keep all scans in memory and not let them timeout.  This can help discover stealthy scans where an attacker  tries
              to  slip  beneath  IDS  thresholds  by  only  scanning  a few ports over a long period of time.  ENABLE_PERSISTENCE is set to "Y" by
              default.

       SCAN_TIMEOUT
              If ENABLE_PERSISTENCE is "N" then psad will use the value set by SCAN_TIMEOUT to remove packets from the scan threshold calculation.
              The default is 3600 seconds (1 hour).

       DANGER_LEVEL{1,2,3,4,5}
              psad  uses  a  scoring  system  to keep track of the severity a scans reaches (represented as a "danger level") over time.  The DAN‐
              GER_LEVEL{n} variables define the number of packets that must be dropped by the firewall before psad will assign the respective dan‐
              ger  level to the scan.  A scan may also be assigned a danger level if the scan matches a particular signature contained in the sig‐
              natures file.  There are five possible danger levels with one being the lowest and five the highest.  Note there are several factors
              that  can  influence how danger levels are calculated: whether or not a scan matches a signature listed in /etc/psad/signatures, the
              value of PORT_RANGE_SCAN_THRESHOLD (see below), whether or not a scan comes from an IP that is listed in the /etc/psad/auto_dl file,
              and finally whether or not scans are allowed to timeout as determined by SCAN_TIMEOUT above.  If a signature is matched or the scan‐
              ning IP is listed in /etc/psad/auto_dl, then the corresponding danger level is automatically assigned to the scan.

       PORT_RANGE_SCAN_THRESHOLD
              Defines the minimum difference between the lowest port and the highest port scanned before an alert is sent (the default is 1  which
              means  that at least two ports must be scanned to generate an alert).  For example, suppose an ip repeatedly scans a single port for
              which there is no special signature in signatures.  Then if PORT_RANGE_SCAN_THRESHOLD=1, psad will never  send  an  alert  for  this
              "scan"  no  matter  how  many packets are sent to the port (i.e.  no matter what the value of DANGER_LEVEL1 is).  The reason for the
              default of 1 is that a "scan" usually means that at least two ports are probed, but if you want psad to be extra  paranoid  you  can
              set PORT_RANGE_SCAN_THRESHOLD=0 to alert on scans to single ports (as long as the number of packets also exceeds DANGER_LEVEL1).

       SHOW_ALL_SIGNATURES
              If "Y", psad will display all signatures detected from a single scanning IP since a scan was first detected instead of just display‐
              ing newly-detected signatures.  SHOW_ALL_SIGNATURES is set to "N" by default.  All signatures are listed in the file  /etc/psad/sig‐
              natures.

       SNORT_SID_STR
              Defines  the  string  kmsgsd  will search for in iptables log messages that are generated by iptables rules designed to detect snort
              rules.  The default is "SID".  See fwsnort (http://www.cipherdyne.org/fwsnort/).

       ENABLE_DSHIELD_ALERTS
              Enable dshield alerting mode.  This will send a parsed version of iptables log messages to dshield.org which is a (free) distributed
              intrusion detection service.  For more information, see http://www.dshield.org/

       IGNORE_CONNTRACK_BUG_PKTS
              If  "Y",  all  TCP  packets  that  have the ACK or RST flag bits set will be ignored by psad since usually we see such packets being
              blocked as a result of the iptables connection tracking bug.  Note there are no signatures that make use of the RST  flag  and  very
              few that use ACK flag.

       ALERT_ALL
              If "Y", send email for all new bad packets instead of just when a danger level increases.  ALERT_ALL is set to "Y" by default.

       PSAD_EMAIL_LIMIT
              Defines  the maximum number of emails that will be sent for a single scanning IP (default is 50).  This variable gives you some pro‐
              tection from psad sending countless alerts if an IP scans your machine constantly.  psad will send a special  alert  if  an  IP  has
              exceeded  the  email  limit.  If PSAD_EMAIL_LIMIT is set to zero, then psad will ignore the limit and send alert emails indefinitely
              for any scanning ip.

       EMAIL_ALERT_DANGER_LEVEL
              Defines the danger level a scan must reach before any alert is sent.  This variable is set to 1 by default.

       ENABLE_AUTO_IDS
              psad has the capability of dynamically blocking all traffic from an IP that has reached a (configurable) danger level through  modi‐
              fication of iptables or tcpwrapper rulesets.  IMPORTANT: This feature is disabled by default since it is possible for an attacker to
              spoof packets from a well known (web)site in an effort to make it look as though the site is scanning your machine,  and  then  psad
              will  consequently  block  all  access  to  it.   Also, psad works by parsing firewall messages for packets the firewall has already
              dropped, so the "scans" are unsuccessful anyway.  However, some administrators prefer to take this risk anyway reasoning  that  they
              can  always  review which sites are being blocked and manually remove the block if necessary (see the --Flush option).  Your mileage
              will vary.

       AUTO_IDS_DANGER_LEVEL
              Defines the danger level a scan must reach before psad will automatically block the IP (ENABLE_AUTO_IDS must be set to "Y").

EXAMPLES
       The following examples illustrate the command line arguments that could be supplied to psad in a few situations:

       Signature checking, passive OS fingerprinting, and automatic IP danger level assignments are enabled by default without having  to  specify
       any command line arguments (best for most situations):

       # psad

       Same as above, but this time we use the init script to start psad:

       # /etc/init.d/psad start

       Use  psad as a forensics tool to analyze an old iptables logfile (psad defaults to analyzing the /var/log/messages file if the -m option is
       not specified):

       # psad -A -m <iptables logfile>

       Run psad in forensics mode, but limit its operations to a specific IP address "10.1.1.1":

       # psad -A -m <iptables logfile> --analysis-fields src:10.1.1.1

       Generate graphs of scan data using AfterGlow:

       # psad --CSV --CSV-fields src dst dp --CSV-max 1000 -m <iptables logfile> | perl afterglow.pl -c color.properties | neato  -Tgif  -o  ipta‐
       bles_graph.gif

       The psad.conf, signatures, and auto_dl files are normally located within the /etc/psad/ directory, but the paths to each of these files can
       be changed:

       # psad -c <config file> -s <signatures file> -a <auto ips file>

       Disable the firewall check and the local port lookup subroutines; most useful if psad is deployed on a syslog logging server:

       # psad --log-server --no-netstat

       Disable reverse dns and whois lookups of scanning IP addresses; most useful if speed of psad is the main concern:

       # psad --no-rdns --no-whois

DEPENDENCIES
       psad requires that iptables is configured with a "drop and log" policy for any traffic that is not explicitly  allowed  through.   This  is
       consistent  with  a  secure  network configuration since all traffic that has not been explicitly allowed should be blocked by the firewall
       ruleset.  By default, psad attempts to determine whether or not the firewall has been configured in this way.  This feature can be disabled
       with  the  --no-fwcheck  or  --log-server options.  The --log-server option is useful if psad is running on a syslog logging server that is
       separate from the firewall.  For more information on compatible iptables rulesets, see the FW_EXAMPLE_RULES file that is bundled  with  the
       psad source distribution.

       psad by default parses the /var/log/messages file for all iptables log data.

DIAGNOSTICS
       The  --debug  option  can  be used to display crucial information about the psad data structures on STDOUT as a scan generates firewall log
       messages.  --debug disables daemon mode execution.

       Another more effective way to peer into the runtime execution of psad is to send (as root) a USR1 signal to the  psad  process  which  will
       cause psad to dump the contents of the %Scan hash to /var/log/psad/scan_hash.$$ where $$ represents the pid of the psad process.

SEE ALSO
       iptables(8), kmsgsd(8), psadwatchd(8), fwsnort(8), snort(8), nmap(1), p0f(1), gnuplot(1)

AUTHOR
       Michael Rash <mbr@cipherdyne.org>

CONTRIBUTORS
       Many  people  who  are  active  in  the open source community have contributed to psad.  See the CREDITS file in the psad sources, or visit
       http://www.cipherdyne.org/psad/docs/contributors.html to view the online list of contributors.

BUGS
       Send bug reports to mbr@cipherdyne.org.  Suggestions and/or comments are always welcome as well.

       For iptables firewalls as of Linux kernel version 2.4.26, if the ip_conntrack module is loaded (or compiled into the kernel) and the  fire‐
       wall  has been configured to keep state of connections, occasionally packets that are supposed to be part of normal TCP traffic will not be
       correctly identified due to a bug in the firewall state timeouts and hence dropped.  Such packets will then be interpreted  as  a  scan  by
       psad  even  though  they  are  not  part  of  any malicious activity.  Fortunately, an interim fix for this problem is to simply extend the
       TCP_CONNTRACK_CLOSE_WAIT timeout value in linux/net/ipv4/netfilter/ip_conntrack_proto_tcp.c from 60 seconds to 2 minutes, and a set of ker‐
       nel  patches is included within the patches/ directory in the psad sources to change this.  (Requires a kernel recompile of course; see the
       Kernel-HOWTO.)  Also, by default the IGNORE_CONNTRACK_BUG_PKTS variable is set to "Y" in psad.conf which causes  psad  to  ignore  all  TCP
       packets that have the ACK bit set unless the packets match a specific signature.

DISTRIBUTION
       psad  is  distributed under the GNU General Public License (GPL), and the latest version may be downloaded from: http://www.cipherdyne.org/
       Snort is a registered trademark of Sourcefire, Inc.

Linux                                                               March 2009                                                             PSAD(8)
