QMQP-SOURCE(1)                          General Commands Manual                         QMQP-SOURCE(1)

NAME
       qmqp-source - parallelized QMQP test generator

SYNOPSIS
       qmqp-source [options] [inet:]host[:port]

       qmqp-source [options] unix:pathname

DESCRIPTION
       qmqp-source  connects  to  the named host and TCP port (default 628) and sends one or more mes‐
       sages to it, either sequentially or in parallel. The program speaks the QMQP protocol.  Connec‐
       tions can be made to UNIX-domain and IPv4 or IPv6 servers.  IPv4 and IPv6 are the default.

       Note: this is an unsupported test program. No attempt is made to maintain compatibility between
       successive versions.

       Arguments:

       -4     Connect to the server with IPv4. This option has no effect when Postfix is built without
              IPv6 support.

       -6     Connect  to  the  server  with  IPv6. This option is not available when Postfix is built
              without IPv6 support.

       -c     Display a running counter that is incremented each time a delivery completes.

       -C count
              When a host sends RESET instead of SYN|ACK, try count times before giving  up.  The  de‐
              fault  count  is 1. Specify a larger count in order to work around a problem with TCP/IP
              stacks that send RESET when the listen queue is full.

       -f from
              Use the specified sender address (default: <foo@myhostname>).

       -l length
              Send length bytes as message payload. The length includes the message headers.

       -m message_count
              Send the specified number of messages (default: 1).

       -M myhostname
              Use the specified hostname or [address] in the default sender and  recipient  addresses,
              instead of the machine hostname.

       -r recipient_count
              Send  the  specified number of recipients per transaction (default: 1).  Recipient names
              are generated by prepending a number to the recipient address.

       -s session_count
              Run the specified number of QMQP sessions in parallel (default: 1).

       -t to  Use the specified recipient address (default: <foo@myhostname>).

       -R interval
              Wait for a random period of time 0 <= n <= interval between  messages.   Suspending  one
              thread does not affect other delivery threads.

       -v     Make the program more verbose, for debugging purposes.

       -w interval
              Wait  a fixed time between messages.  Suspending one thread does not affect other deliv‐
              ery threads.

SEE ALSO
       qmqp-sink(1), QMQP message dump

LICENSE
       The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.

AUTHOR(S)
       Wietse Venema
       IBM T.J. Watson Research
       P.O. Box 704
       Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA

       Wietse Venema
       Google, Inc.
       111 8th Avenue
       New York, NY 10011, USA

                                                                                        QMQP-SOURCE(1)
