REGDIFF(1)                                                                               System Administration tools                                                                               REGDIFF(1)



NAME
       regdiff - Diff program for Windows registry files

SYNOPSIS
       regdiff [--help] [--backend=BACKEND] [--credentials=CREDENTIALS] [location]

DESCRIPTION
       regdiff compares two Windows registry files key by key and value by value and generates a text file that contains the differences between the two files.

       A file generated by regdiff can later be applied to a registry file by the regpatch utility.

       regdiff and regpatch use the same file format as the regedit32.exe utility from Windows.

OPTIONS
       --help
           Show list of available options.

       --backend BACKEND
           Name of backend to load. Possible values are: creg, regf, dir and rpc. The default is dir.

           This argument can be specified twice: once for the first registry file and once for the second.

       --credentials=CREDENTIALS
           Credentials to use, if any. Password should be separated from user name by a percent sign.

           This argument can be specified twice: once for the first registry file and once for the second.

VERSION
       This man page is correct for version 4.0 of the Samba suite.

SEE ALSO
       gregedit, regshell, regpatch, regtree, samba, patch, diff

AUTHOR
       This utility is part of the Samba[1] suite, which is developed by the global Samba Team[2].

       This manpage and regdiff were written by Jelmer Vernooij.

NOTES
        1. Samba
           http://www.samba.org/

        2. Samba Team
           http://www.samba.org/samba/team/



Samba 4.0                                                                                         08/09/2019                                                                                       REGDIFF(1)
