REMMINA(1)                                                                                                                                    BSD General Commands Manual                                                                                                                                    REMMINA(1)

NAME
     remmina — Remmina the GTK+ Remote Desktop Client

SYNOPSIS
     remmina [-a|i|n|q|v] [-c FILE] [-e FILE] [-p PAGENR] [-s SERVER] [-t PROTOCOL] [-x PLUGIN] [--display DISPLAY]

DESCRIPTION
     Remmina is a remote desktop client written in GTK+, aiming to be useful for system administrators and travellers, who need to work with lots of remote computers in front of either large monitors or tiny netbooks. Remmina supports multiple network protocols in an integrated and consistent user interface.
     Currently RDP, VNC, SPICE, NX, XDMCP and SSH are supported.

     Remmina is released in separated source packages:

         "remmina", the main GTK+ application
         "remmina-plugins", a set of plugins

     Remmina is free and open-source software, released under GNU GPL license.

FILES
     ${XDG_CONFIG_DIRS}/remmina.pref or ${XDG_CONFIG_HOME}/remmina/remmina.pref :

     Remmina configuration files.

     At the first Remmina execution the system wide Remmina configuration files, will be copied in the ${XDG_CONFIG_HOME}

     ${XDG_DATA_DIRS}/FILE.remmina or ${XDG_DATA_HOME}/remmina/FILE.remmina :

     Remmina profiles, the file name is autogenerated, but you can create manually your own files with the FILE name you prefer.

OPTIONS
     -h, --help
             Show help options

     -a      Show about dialog

     -c, --connect=FILE
             Directly connect to desktop using options described by file, file type can be either .remmina or one supported by a file import capable plugin

     -e, --edit=FILE
             Open and edit desktop connection using options described by file, file type can be either .remmina or one supported by a file import capable plugin

     -k, --kiosk
             Start Remmina in kiosk mode (thin client)

     -n, --new
             Create a new connection profile

     -p, --pref=PAGENR
             Show preferences dialog page

     -x, --plugin=PLUGIN
             Execute the plugin

     -q, --quit
             Quit the application

     -s, --server=SERVER
             Use default server name (for --new)

     -t, --protocol=PROTOCOL
             Use default protocol (for --new)

     -i, --icon
             Start as tray icon

     -v, --version
             Show the application's version

     --display=DISPLAY
             X display to use

SEE ALSO
AUTHORS
     Antenore Gatta <antenore at simbiosi dot org> and Giovanni Panozzo <giovanni at panozzo dot it>

     See the THANKS file for a more detailed list.

     Remmina was initially written by Vic Lee <llyzs@163.com>

     This manual page was written by Antenore Gatta <antenore at simbiosi dot org>.

COPYRIGHT
     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option) any later version.

                                                                                                                                                    December 5, 2019
