RUNUSER(1)                      User Commands                      RUNUSER(1)

NAME
       runuser - run a command with substitute user and group ID

SYNOPSIS
       runuser [options] -u user [[--] command [argument...]]

       runuser [options] [-] [user [argument...]]

DESCRIPTION
       runuser  allows  to  run commands with a substitute user and group ID.
       If the option -u is not given, it falls back to  su-compatible  seman‐
       tics  and  a  shell  is executed.  The difference between the commands
       runuser and su is that runuser does not ask for a password (because it
       may  be  executed  by  the root user only) and it uses a different PAM
       configuration.  The command runuser does not have to be installed with
       set-user-ID permissions.

       If the PAM session is not required then recommended solution is to use
       setpriv(1) command.

       When called without arguments, runuser defaults to running an interac‐
       tive shell as root.

       For backward compatibility, runuser defaults to not change the current
       directory and to only set the environment  variables  HOME  and  SHELL
       (plus  USER and LOGNAME if the target user is not root).  This version
       of runuser uses PAM for session management.

OPTIONS
       -c, --command=command
              Pass command to the shell with the -c option.

       -f, --fast
              Pass -f to the shell, which may or may not be useful  depending
              on the shell.

       -g, --group=group
              The  primary  group to be used.  This option is allowed for the
              root user only.

       -G, --supp-group=group
              Specify a supplemental group.  This option is available to  the
              root  user  only.   The  first specified supplementary group is
              also used as a primary group if the option --group is  unspeci‐
              fied.

       -, -l, --login
              Start the shell as a login shell with an environment similar to
              a real login:

                 o      clears all the environment variables except for TERM

                 o      initializes the environment  variables  HOME,  SHELL,
                        USER, LOGNAME, PATH

                 o      changes to the target user's home directory

                 o      sets argv[0] of the shell to '-' in order to make the
                        shell a login shell

       -m, -p, --preserve-environment
              Preserve the entire environment, i.e. it  does  not  set  HOME,
              SHELL,  USER  nor LOGNAME.  The option is ignored if the option
              --login is specified.

       -s, --shell=shell
              Run the specified shell instead of the default.  The  shell  to
              run is selected according to the following rules, in order:

                 o      the shell specified with --shell

                 o      the shell specified in the environment variable SHELL
                        if the --preserve-environment option is used

                 o      the shell listed in the passwd entry  of  the  target
                        user

                 o      /bin/sh

              If  the  target user has a restricted shell (i.e. not listed in
              /etc/shells) the --shell option and the SHELL environment vari‐
              ables are ignored unless the calling user is root.

       --session-command=command
              Same as -c , but do not create a new session.  (Discouraged.)

       -V, --version
              Display version information and exit.

       -h, --help
              Display help text and exit.

CONFIG FILES
       runuser  reads the /etc/default/runuser and /etc/login.defs configura‐
       tion files.   The  following  configuration  items  are  relevant  for
       runuser:

       ENV_PATH (string)
           Defines  the  PATH  environment  variable for a regular user.  The
           default value is /usr/local/bin:/bin:/usr/bin.

       ENV_ROOTPATH (string)
       ENV_SUPATH (string)
           Defines the PATH environment variable for root. The default  value
           is /usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin.

       ALWAYS_SET_PATH (boolean)
           If  set  to  yes  and  --login and --preserve-environment were not
           specified runuser initializes PATH.

EXIT STATUS
       runuser normally returns the exit status of the command  it  executed.
       If  the  command was killed by a signal, runuser returns the number of
       the signal plus 128.

       Exit status generated by runuser itself:

                 1      Generic error before executing the requested command

                 126    The requested command could not be executed

                 127    The requested command was not found

FILES
       /etc/pam.d/runuser
                        default PAM configuration file
       /etc/pam.d/runuser-l
                        PAM configuration file if --login is specified
       /etc/default/runuser
                        runuser specific logindef config file
       /etc/login.defs  global logindef config file

SEE ALSO
       setpriv(1), su(1), login.defs(5), shells(5), pam(8)

HISTORY
       This  runuser command was derived from coreutils' su, which was  based
       on  an  implementation by David MacKenzie, and the Fedora runuser com‐
       mand by Dan Walsh.

AVAILABILITY
       The runuser command is part of the util-linux package and is available
       from   Linux  Kernel  Archive  ⟨https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils
       /util-linux/⟩.

util-linux                        July 2014                        RUNUSER(1)
