RZ(1)                                                         General Commands Manual                                                        RZ(1)

NAME
       rx, rb, rz - XMODEM, YMODEM, ZMODEM (Batch) file receive

SYNOPSIS
       rz [- +8abeOpqRtTuUvy]
       rb [- +abqRtuUvy]
       rx [- abceqRtuUv] file
       [-][v]rzCOMMAND

DESCRIPTION
       This  program  uses error correcting protocols to receive files over a dial-in serial port from a variety of programs running under PC-DOS,
       CP/M, Unix, and other operating systems.  It is invoked from a shell prompt manually, or automatically as a result of an "sz file ..." com‐
       mand given to the calling program.

       While  rz  is smart enough to be called from cu(1), very few versions of cu(1) are smart enough to allow rz to work properly.  Unix flavors
       of Professional-YAM are available for such dial-out application.

       Rz (Receive ZMODEM) receives files with the ZMODEM batch protocol.  Pathnames are supplied by the sending program, and directories are made
       if  necessary  (and possible).  Normally, the "rz" command is automatically issued by the calling ZMODEM program, but some defective ZMODEM
       implementations may require starting rz the old fashioned way.

       Rb receives file(s) with YMODEM, accepting either standard 128 byte sectors or 1024 byte sectors (YAM  sb  -k  option).   The  user  should
       determine when the 1024 byte block length actually improves throughput without causing lost data or even system crashes.

       If  True YMODEM (Omen Technology trademark) file information (file length, etc.)  is received, the file length controls the number of bytes
       written to the output dataset, and the modify time and file mode (iff non zero) are set accordingly.

       If no True YMODEM file information is received, slashes in the pathname are changed to underscore, and any trailing period in the  pathname
       is  eliminated.   This  conversion  is useful for files received from CP/M systems.  With YMODEM, each file name is converted to lower case
       unless it contains one or more lower case letters.

       Rx receives a single file with XMODEM or XMODEM-1k protocol.  The user should determine when the 1024 byte block length  actually  improves
       throughput  without causing problems.  The user must supply the file name to both sending and receiving programs.  Up to 1023 garbage char‐
       acters may be added to the received file.

       Rz may be invoked as rzCOMMAND (with an optional leading - as generated by login(1)).  For each received file, rz will  pipe  the  file  to
       ``COMMAND filename'' where filename is the name of the transmitted file with the file contents as standard input.

       Each file transfer is acknowledged when COMMAND exits with 0 status.  A non zero exit status terminates transfers.

       A  typical use for this form is rzrmail which calls rmail(1) to post mail to the user specified by the transmitted file name.  For example,
       sending the file "caf" from a PC-DOS system to rzrmail on a Unix system would result in the contents of the DOS file "caf" being mailed  to
       user "caf".

       On  some  Unix  systems, the login directory must contain a link to COMMAND as login sets SHELL=rsh which disallows absolute pathnames.  If
       invoked with a leading ``v'', rz will be verbose (see v option).  The following entry works for Unix SYS III/V:
                                                          rzrmail::5:1::/bin:/usr/local/rzrmail
       If the SHELL environment variable includes rsh , rbash or rksh (restricted shell), rz will not accept absolute pathnames or references to a
       parent directory, will not modify an existing file, and removes any files received in error.

       If  rz  is  invoked  with  stdout and stderr to different datasets, Verbose is set to 2, causing frame by frame progress reports to stderr.
       This may be disabled with the q option.

OPTIONS
       The meanings of the available options are:

       -+, --append
              append received data to an existing file (ZMODEM, ASCII only).
       -a, --ascii
              Convert files to Unix conventions by stripping carriage returns and all characters beginning with the first Control Z (CP/M  end  of
              file).
       -b, --binary
              Binary (tell it like it is) file transfer override.
       -B NUMBER, --bufsize NUMBER
              Buffer  NUMBER  bytes  before  writing  to  disk.  Default ist 32768, which should be enough for most situations. If you have a slow
              machine or a bad disk interface or suffer from other hardware problems you might want to increase the buffersize.  -1 or auto use  a
              buffer  large  enough to buffer the whole file. Be careful with this options - things normally get worse, not better, if the machine
              starts to swap.
       -c, --with-crc
              XMODEM only. Use 16 bit CRC (normally a one byte checksum is used).
       -C, --allow-remote-commands
              allow remote command execution ( insecure ). This allows the sender to execute an arbitrary command through system () or  execl  ().
              Default is to disable this feature (?). This option is ignored if running in restricted mode.
       -D, --null
              Output file data to /dev/null; for testing.  (Unix only)
       --delay-startup N
              Wait N seconds before doing anything.
       -e, --escape
              Force sender to escape all control characters; normally XON, XOFF, DLE, CR-@-CR, and Ctrl-X are escaped.
       -E, --rename
              Rename incoming file if target filename already exists. The new file name will have a dot and a number (0..999) appended.
       -h, --help
              give help screen.
       -m N, --min-bps N
              Stop transmission if BPS-Rate (Bytes Per Second) falls below N for a certain time (see --min-bps-time option).
       -M N, --min-bps-time
              Used together with --min-bps. Default is 120 (seconds).
       -O, --disable-timeouts
              Disable  read timeout handling code. This makes lrz hang if the sender does not send any more, but increases performance (a bit) and
              decreases system load (through reducing the number of system calls by about 50 percent).

              Use this option with care.
       --o-sync
              Open output files in synchronous write mode. This may be useful if you experience errors  due  to  lost  interrupts  if  update  (or
              bdflush or whoever this daemon is called on your system) writes the buffers to the disk.

              This option is ignored and a warning is printed if your systems doesn't support O_SYNC.
       -p, --protect
              (ZMODEM) Protect: skip file if destination file exists.
       -q, --quiet
              Quiet suppresses verbosity.
       -r, --resume
              Crash recovery mode. lrz tries to resume interrupted file transfers.
       -R, --restricted
              Enter more restricted mode. lrz will not create directories or files with a leading dot if this option is given twice.

              See SECURITY for mode information about restricted mode.
       -s HH:MM, --stop-at HH:MM
              Stop transmission at HH hours, MM minutes. Another variant, using +N instead of HH:MM, stops transmission in N seconds.
       -S, --timesync
              Request  timesync  packet from the sender. The sender sends its system time, causing lrz to complain about more then 60 seconds dif‐
              ference.

              Lrz tries to set the local system time to the remote time if this option is given twice (this fails if lrz is not run by root).

              This option makes lrz incompatible with certain other ZModems. Don't use it unless you know what you are doing.
       --syslog[=off]
              turn syslogging on or off. the default is set at configure time.  This option is ignored if no syslog support is compiled in.
       -t TIM, --timeout TIM
              Change timeout to TIM tenths of seconds. This is ignored if timeout handling is turned of through the O option.
       --tcp-client ADDRESS:PORT
              Act as a tcp/ip client: Connect to the given port.

              See --tcp-server for more information.

       --tcp-server
              Act as a server: Open a socket, print out what to do, wait for connection.

              You will normally not want to use this option as lrzsz is the only zmodem which understands what  to  do  (private  extension).  You
              might  want  to  use  this  if  you  have to use zmodem (for which reason whatever), and cannot use the --tcp option of lsz (perhaps
              because your telnet doesn't allow to spawn a local program with stdin/stdout connected to the remote side).

              If you use this option you have to start lsz with the --tcp-client ADDRESS:PORT option.  lrz will print  the  address  and  port  on
              startup.

              Use of this option imposes a security risk, somebody else could connect to the port in between. See SECURITY for details.
       -U, --unrestrict
              turn off restricted mode (this is not possible if running under a restricted shell).
       --version
              prints out version number.
       -v, --verbose
              Verbose causes a list of file names to be appended to stderr.  More v's generate more output.
       -wN, --windowsize N
              Set window size to N.
       -X, --xmodem
              use XMODEM protocol.
       -y, --overwrite
              Yes, clobber any existing files with the same name.
       --ymodem
              use YMODEM protocol.
       -Z, --zmodem
              use ZMODEM protocol.

SECURITY
       Contrary to the original ZMODEM lrz defaults to restricted mode. In restricted mode lrz will not accept absolute pathnames or references to
       a parent directory, will not modify an existing file, and removes any files received in error. Remote command execution is disabled.

       To use a more restricted mode set the environment variable ZMODEM_RESTRICTED or give the R option. This disables creation of subdirectories
       and invisible files.

       Restricted mode may be turned off with the U option, unless lrz runs under a restricted shell.

       Use of the
              --tcp-client  or --tcp-server options imposes a security risk, as somebody else could connect to the port before you do it, and grab
              your data. If there's strong demand for a more secure mode i might introduce some sort of password challenge.

ENVIRONMENT
       lrz uses the following environment variables:

       SHELL  lrz recognizes a restricted shell if this variable includes rsh or rksh

       ZMODEM_RESTRICTED
              lrz enters the more restricted mode if the variable is set.

EXAMPLES
       (Pro-YAM command)
              <ALT-2>
              Pro-YAM Command: sz *.h *.c
              (This automatically invokes rz on the connected system.)

SEE ALSO
       ZMODEM.DOC, YMODEM.DOC, Professional-YAM, crc(omen), sz(omen), usq(omen), undos(omen)

       Compile time options required for various operating systems are described in the source file.

NOTES
       Sending serial data to timesharing minicomputers at sustained high speeds has been known to cause lockups, system halts, kernel panics, and
       occasional antisocial behaviour.  When experimenting with high speed input to a system, consider rebooting the system if the file transfers
       are not successful, especially if the personality of the system appears altered.

       The Unix "ulimit" parameter must be set high enough to permit large file transfers.

       The TTY input buffering on some systems may not allow long blocks or streaming input at high speed.  You should suspect this  problem  when
       you  can't  send  data to the Unix system at high speeds using ZMODEM, YMODEM-1k or XMODEM-1k, when YMODEM with 128 byte blocks works prop‐
       erly.  If the system's tty line handling is really broken, the serial port or the entire system may  not  survive  the  onslaught  of  long
       bursts of high speed data.

       The DSZ or Pro-YAM zmodem l numeric parameter may be set to a value between 64 and 1024 to limit the burst length ("zmodem pl128").

       32 bit CRC code courtesy Gary S. Brown.  Directory creation code from John Gilmore's PD TAR program.

BUGS
       Calling rz from most versions of cu(1) doesn't work because cu's receive process fights rz for characters from the modem.

       Programs  that  do  not properly implement the specified file transfer protocol may cause sz to "hang" the port for a minute or two.  Every
       reported instance of this problem has been corrected by using ZCOMM, Pro-YAM, or other program with a correct implementation of the  speci‐
       fied protocol.

       Many programs claiming to support YMODEM only support XMODEM with 1k blocks, and they often don't get that quite right.

       Pathnames  are  restricted  to  127  characters.   In XMODEM single file mode, the pathname given on the command line is still processed as
       described above.  The ASCII option´s CR/LF to NL translation merely deletes CR´s; undos(omen) performs a more intelligent translation.

VMS VERSION
       The VMS version does not set the file time.

       VMS C Standard I/O and RMS may interact to modify file contents unexpectedly.

       The VMS version does not support invocation as rzCOMMAND .  The current VMS version does not support XMODEM, XMODEM-1k, or YMODEM.

       According to the VMS documentation, the buffered input routine used on the VMS version of rz introduces a delay of up  to  one  second  for
       each  protocol transaction.  This delay may be significant for very short files.  Removing the "#define BUFREAD" line from rz.c will elimi‐
       nate this delay at the expense of increased CPU utilization.

       The VMS version causes DCL to generate a random off the wall error message under some error conditions; this is a result of the  incompati‐
       bility of the VMS "exit" function with the Unix/MSDOS standard.

ZMODEM CAPABILITIES
       Rz supports incoming ZMODEM binary (-b), ASCII (-a), protect (-p), clobber (-y), and append (-+) requests.  The default is protect (-p) and
       binary (-b).

       The Unix versions support ZMODEM command execution.

FILES
       rz.c, crctab.c, rbsb.c, zm.c, zmodem.h Unix source files.

       rz.c, crctab.c, vrzsz.c, zm.c, zmodem.h, vmodem.h, vvmodem.c, VMS source files.

                                                                       OMEN                                                                  RZ(1)
