SALT-CALL(1)                                                           Salt                                                           SALT-CALL(1)

NAME
       salt-call - salt-call Documentation

SYNOPSIS
          salt-call [options]

DESCRIPTION
       The  salt-call  command is used to run module functions locally on a minion instead of executing them from the master. Salt-call is used to
       run a Standalone Minion, and was originally created for troubleshooting.

       The Salt Master is contacted to retrieve state files and other resources during execution unless the --local option is specified.

       NOTE:
          salt-call commands execute from the current user's shell context, while salt commands execute from the system's default context.

OPTIONS
       --version
              Print the version of Salt that is running.

       --versions-report
              Show program's dependencies and version number, and then exit

       -h, --help
              Show the help message and exit

       -c CONFIG_DIR, --config-dir=CONFIG_dir
              The location of the Salt configuration directory. This directory contains the configuration files for Salt master and  minions.  The
              default location on most systems is /etc/salt.

       --hard-crash
              Raise any original exception rather than exiting gracefully Default: False

       -g, --grains
              Return the information generated by the Salt grains

       -m MODULE_DIRS, --module-dirs=MODULE_DIRS
              Specify  an  additional  directory to pull modules from.  Multiple directories can be provided by passing -m /--module-dirs multiple
              times.

       -d, --doc, --documentation
              Return the documentation for the specified module or for all modules if none are specified

       --master=MASTER
              Specify the master to use. The minion must be authenticated with the master. If this option is omitted, the master options from  the
              minion config will be used. If multi masters are set up the first listed master that responds will be used.

       --return RETURNER
              Set salt-call to pass the return data to one or many returner interfaces.  To use many returner interfaces specify a comma delimited
              list of returners.

       --local
              Run salt-call locally, as if there was no master running.

       --file-root=FILE_ROOT
              Set this directory as the base file root.

       --pillar-root=PILLAR_ROOT
              Set this directory as the base pillar root.

       --retcode-passthrough
              Exit with the salt call retcode and not the salt binary retcode

       --metadata
              Print out the execution metadata as well as the return. This will print out the outputter data, the return code, etc.

       --id=ID
              Specify the minion id to use. If this option is omitted, the id option from the minion config will be used.

       --skip-grains
              Do not load grains.

       --refresh-grains-cache
              Force a refresh of the grains cache

   Logging Options
       Logging options which override any settings defined on the configuration files.

       -l LOG_LEVEL, --log-level=LOG_LEVEL
              Console logging log level. One of all, garbage, trace, debug, info, warning, error, quiet. Default: warning.

       --log-file=LOG_FILE
              Log file path. Default: /var/log/salt/minion.

       --log-file-level=LOG_LEVEL_LOGFILE
              Logfile logging log level. One of all, garbage, trace, debug, info, warning, error, quiet. Default: warning.

   Output Options
       --out  Pass in an alternative outputter to display the return of data. This outputter can be any of the available outputters:
                 grains, highstate, json, key, overstatestage, pprint, raw, txt, yaml

              Some outputters are formatted only for data returned from specific functions; for instance, the grains outputter will not  work  for
              non-grains data.

              If  an outputter is used that does not support the data passed into it, then Salt will fall back on the pprint outputter and display
              the return data using the Python pprint standard library module.

              NOTE:
                 If using --out=json, you will probably want --static as well.  Without the static option, you will get a separate JSON string per
                 minion  which  makes JSON output invalid as a whole.  This is due to using an iterative outputter. So if you want to feed it to a
                 JSON parser, use --static as well.

       --out-indent OUTPUT_INDENT, --output-indent OUTPUT_INDENT
              Print the output indented by the provided value in spaces. Negative values disable indentation. Only applicable in  outputters  that
              support indentation.

       --out-file=OUTPUT_FILE, --output-file=OUTPUT_FILE
              Write the output to the specified file.

       --out-file-append, --output-file-append
              Append the output to the specified file.

       --no-color
              Disable all colored output

       --force-color
              Force colored output

              NOTE:
                 When using colored output the color codes are as follows:

                 green  denotes success, red denotes failure, blue denotes changes and success and yellow denotes a expected future change in con‐
                 figuration.

       --state-output=STATE_OUTPUT, --state_output=STATE_OUTPUT
              Override the configured state_output value for minion output. One of 'full',  'terse',  'mixed',  'changes'  or  'filter'.  Default:
              'none'.

       --state-verbose=STATE_VERBOSE, --state_verbose=STATE_VERBOSE
              Override the configured state_verbose value for minion output. Set to True or False. Default: none.

SEE ALSO
       salt(1) salt-master(1) salt-minion(1)

AUTHOR
       Thomas S. Hatch <thatch45@gmail.com> and many others, please see the Authors file

2019.2.0                                                           Jan 08, 2019                                                       SALT-CALL(1)
