SETFATTR(1)                                                                                   File Utilities                                                                                  SETFATTR(1)

NAME
       setfattr - set extended attributes of filesystem objects

SYNOPSIS
       setfattr [-h] -n name [-v value] pathname...
       setfattr [-h] -x name pathname...
       setfattr [-h] --restore=file

DESCRIPTION
       The setfattr command associates a new value with an extended attribute name for each specified file.

OPTIONS
       -n name, --name=name
           Specifies the name of the extended attribute to set.

       -v value, --value=value
           Specifies the new value of the extended attribute. There are three methods available for encoding the value.  If the given string is enclosed in double quotes, the inner string is treated as
           text. In that case, backslashes and double quotes have special meanings and need to be escaped by a preceding backslash. Any control characters can be encoded  as  a  backslash  followed  by
           three  digits  as its ASCII code in octal. If the given string begins with 0x or 0X, it expresses a hexadecimal number. If the given string begins with 0s or 0S, base64 encoding is expected.
           See also the --encoding option of getfattr(1).

       -x name, --remove=name
           Remove the named extended attribute entirely.

       -h, --no-dereference
           Do not follow symlinks.  If pathname is a symbolic link, it is not followed, but is instead itself the inode being modified.

       --restore=file
           Restores extended attributes from file.  The file must be in the format generated by the getfattr command with the --dump option.  If a dash (-) is given as the  file  name,  setfattr  reads
           from standard input.

       --version
           Print the version of setfattr and exit.

       --help
           Print help explaining the command line options.

       --  End of command line options.  All remaining parameters are interpreted as file names, even if they start with a dash character.

AUTHOR
       Andreas Gruenbacher, <a.gruenbacher@bestbits.at> and the SGI XFS development team, <linux-xfs@oss.sgi.com>.

       Please send your bug reports or comments to these addresses.

SEE ALSO
       getfattr(1), and attr(5).

Dec 2001                                                                                   Extended Attributes                                                                                SETFATTR(1)
