smidump(1)                                                           SMI Tools                                                          smidump(1)

NAME
       smidump - dump SMI or SPPI modules in various formats

SYNOPSIS
       smidump [ -Vhqusmk ] [ -c file ] [ -o name ] [ -p module ] [ -l level ] [ -f format ] module(s)

DESCRIPTION
       The  smidump program is used to dump the contents of a single MIB or PIB module or a collection of modules to stdout in a selectable output
       format.  This format may be a simple tree of nodes, types or imported modules, but also a format fully compliant to SMIv1, SMIv2,  SPPI  or
       SMIng or CORBA IDL or C source code. Smidump can thus be used to convert modules from SMIv2 to SMIng and from SMIng to SMIv2, or to develop
       template based agent code.

OPTIONS
       -V, --version
              Show the smidump version and exit.

       -h, --help
              Show a help text and exit. The help text contains a list of all supported output formats.

       -c file, --config=file
              Read file instead of any other (global and user) configuration file.

       -f format, --format=format
              Use format when dumping a module. Supported output formats are described below. The default output format is SMIng. The format argu‐
              ment is case insensitive.

       -l level, --level=level
              Report errors and warnings up to the given severity level. See the smilint(1) manual page for a description of the error levels. The
              default error level is 3.

       -s, --severity
              Show the error severity in brackets before error messages.

       -m, --error-names
              Show the error names in braces before error messages.

       -o name, --output=name
              Write the output in one or multiple files instead of stdout. The file name(s) are derived from the name argument.   Not  all  format
              support this option.

       -p module, --preload=module
              Preload  the module module before reading the main module(s). This may be helpful if an incomplete main module misses to import some
              definitions.

       -q, --quiet
              Suppress comments from dumped modules. What kind of information gets suppressed depends on the output format.

       -u, --unified
              Dump a unified output in case of multiple module(s) instead of multiple concatenated output sections. This is not supported for  all
              output formats.

       -k, --keep-going
              Continue as much as possible after serious parse errors. Note that the output generated after serious parse errors may be incomplete
              and should be used with care.

       module(s)
              These are the module(s) to be dumped. If a module argument represents a path name (identified by containing  at  least  one  dot  or
              slash character), this is assumed to be the exact file to read. Otherwise, if a module is identified by its plain module name, it is
              searched according to libsmi internal rules. See smi_config(3) for more details.

OUTPUT FORMATS
       The smidump program supports the following output formats:

       sming       SMIng compliant format as defined in the SMIng Internet-Draft.

       smiv2       SMIv2 compliant format as defined in RFC 2578, RFC 2579, RFC 2580.

       smiv1       SMIv2 compliant format as defined in RFC 1155, RFC 1212, RFC 1215.

       sppi        SPPI compliant format as defined in RFC 3159. If the underlying module is not SPPI, there might be some  mandatory  information
                   missing.

       mosy        Format generated by the mosy compiler.

       imports     Import hierarchy of a module.

       types       Types defined in a module.

       tree        OID registration tree structure of a module.

       metrics     Metrics derived from a module (experimental).

       identifiers List of identifiers defined in a module.

       compliances Compliance definitions with all included objects and notifications.

       corba       CORBA IDL and OID definitions following the JIDM specification translation rules.

       netsnmp     C source code files for usage within the net-snmp package (experimental).

       scli        ANSI C manager stubs for usage within the scli package (experimental).

       cm          Reverse engineered conceptual model in DIA XML file format (experimental).

       svg         SVG diagram of a module (experimental). Use with -u when dumping multiple modules.

       jax         Java AgentX sub-agent classes in separate files (experimental).

       perl        Perl represention of the MIB module (contributed by Martin Schulz <schulz@videotron.ca>).

       python      Python dictionaries represention of the MIB module (contributed by Pat Knight <pat@ktgroup.co.uk>).

       xml         SMI in XML format (experimental).

       xsd         SMI in XML schema format (experimental).

       sizes       SNMP best case / worst case RFC 3416 PDU sizes for typical PDUs excluding SNMP message and transport headers (experimental).

EXAMPLE
       This  example converts the SMIv2 module IF-MIB in the current directory to IF-MIB.sming in SMIng format. Note that the ./ prefix is used to
       ensure reading the module from the current directory and not from a place that libsmi guesses on its own.

         $ smidump -f sming ./IF-MIB > IF-MIB.sming

SEE ALSO
       The libsmi(3) project is documented at http://www.ibr.cs.tu-bs.de/projects/libsmi/.

       smilint(1)

AUTHORS
       (C) 1999-2004 F. Strauss, TU Braunschweig, Germany <strauss@ibr.cs.tu-bs.de>
       (C) 1999-2002 J. Schoenwaelder, TU Braunschweig, Germany <schoenw@ibr.cs.tu-bs.de>
       (C) 2002-2003 J. Schoenwaelder, University of Osnabrueck, Germany
       (C) 2003-2004 J. Schoenwaelder, International University Bremen, Germany
       (C) 2001-2002 T. Klie, TU Braunschweig, Germany <tklie@ibr.cs.tu-bs.de>
       (C) 2002 M. Bunkus, TU Braunschweig, Germany <bunkus@ibr.cs.tu-bs.de>
       and contributions by many other people.

IBR                                                               August 10, 2004                                                       smidump(1)
