smidiff(1)                                                           SMI Tools                                                          smidiff(1)

NAME
       smidiff - check differences between a pair of SMI or SPPI modules

SYNOPSIS
       smidiff [ -Vhsm ] [ -c file ] [ -l level ] [ -i error-pattern ] [ -p module ] oldmodule newmodule

DESCRIPTION
       The  smidiff  program  is  used to check differences between a pair of SMI MIB modules or SPPI PIB modules.  E.g., it can be used to detect
       changes in updated MIB modules that can cause interoperability problems with existing implementations. SMIv1/v2 and SPPI style MIB/PIB mod‐
       ules are supported.

       Note that conformance statements are currently not checked.

       Messages describing the differences are written to the standard output channel while error and warning messages generated by the parser are
       written to the standard error channel.

OPTIONS
       -V, --version
              Show the smidump version and exit.

       -h, --help
              Show a help text and exit.

       -s, --severity
              Show the error severity in brackets before error messages.

       -m, --error-names
              Show the error names in braces before error messages.

       -c file, --config=file
              Read file instead of any other (global and user) configuration file.

       -p module, --preload=module
              Preload the module module before reading the main module(s). This may be helpful if an incomplete main module misses to import  some
              definitions.

       -l level, --level=level
              Report errors and warnings up to the given severity level. See the smilint(1) manual page for a description of the error levels. The
              default error level is 3.

       -i prefix, --ignore=prefix
              Ignore all errors that have a tag which matches prefix.

       oldmodule
              The original module.

       newmodule
              The updated module.

       If a module argument represents a path name (identified by containing at least one dot or slash character), this is assumed to be the exact
       file  to  read.  Otherwise,  if  a  module  is  identified by its plain module name, it is searched according to libsmi internal rules. See
       smi_config(3) for more details.

SEE ALSO
       The libsmi(3) project is documented at http://www.ibr.cs.tu-bs.de/projects/libsmi/.

AUTHOR
       (C) 2001 T. Klie, TU Braunschweig, Germany <tklie@ibr.cs.tu-bs.de>
       (C) 2001 J. Schoenwaelder, TU Braunschweig, Germany <schoenw@ibr.cs.tu-bs.de>
       and contributions by many other people.

IBR                                                               August 10, 2004                                                       smidiff(1)
