SMTP-SOURCE(1)                          General Commands Manual                         SMTP-SOURCE(1)

NAME
       smtp-source - parallelized SMTP/LMTP test generator

SYNOPSIS
       smtp-source [options] [inet:]host[:port]

       smtp-source [options] unix:pathname

DESCRIPTION
       smtp-source  connects  to  the named host and TCP port (default: port 25) and sends one or more
       messages to it, either sequentially or in parallel. The program speaks either SMTP (default) or
       LMTP.   Connections can be made to UNIX-domain and IPv4 or IPv6 servers.  IPv4 and IPv6 are the
       default.

       Note: this is an unsupported test program. No attempt is made to maintain compatibility between
       successive versions.

       Arguments:

       -4     Connect to the server with IPv4. This option has no effect when Postfix is built without
              IPv6 support.

       -6     Connect to the server with IPv6. This option is not  available  when  Postfix  is  built
              without IPv6 support.

       -A     Don't abort when the server sends something other than the expected positive reply code.

       -c     Display a running counter that is incremented each time an SMTP DATA command completes.

       -C count
              When  a  host  sends RESET instead of SYN|ACK, try count times before giving up. The de‐
              fault count is 1. Specify a larger count in order to work around a problem  with  TCP/IP
              stacks that send RESET when the listen queue is full.

       -d     Don't  disconnect  after  sending a message; send the next message over the same connec‐
              tion.

       -f from
              Use the specified sender address (default: <foo@myhostname>).

       -F file
              Send the pre-formatted message header and body in the specified file,  while  prepending
              '.' before lines that begin with '.', and while appending CRLF after each line.

       -l length
              Send length bytes as message payload. The length does not include message headers.

       -L     Speak LMTP rather than SMTP.

       -m message_count
              Send the specified number of messages (default: 1).

       -M myhostname
              Use  the  specified  hostname or [address] in the HELO command and in the default sender
              and recipient addresses, instead of the machine hostname.

       -N     Prepend a non-repeating sequence number to each recipient address. This avoids the arti‐
              ficial  100%  hit  rate in the resolve and rewrite client caches and exercises the triv‐
              ial-rewrite daemon, better approximating Postfix performance under real-life work-loads.

       -o     Old mode: don't send HELO, and don't send message headers.

       -r recipient_count
              Send the specified number of recipients per transaction (default: 1).   Recipient  names
              are generated by prepending a number to the recipient address.

       -R interval
              Wait  for  a  random period of time 0 <= n <= interval between messages.  Suspending one
              thread does not affect other delivery threads.

       -s session_count
              Run the specified number of SMTP sessions in parallel (default: 1).

       -S subject
              Send mail with the named subject line (default: none).

       -t to  Use the specified recipient address (default: <foo@myhostname>).

       -T windowsize
              Override the default TCP window size. To work around broken TCP window scaling implemen‐
              tations, specify a value > 0 and < 65536.

       -v     Make the program more verbose, for debugging purposes.

       -w interval
              Wait  a fixed time between messages.  Suspending one thread does not affect other deliv‐
              ery threads.

       [inet:]host[:port]
              Connect via TCP to host host, port port. The default port is smtp.

       unix:pathname
              Connect to the UNIX-domain socket at pathname.

BUGS
       No SMTP command pipelining support.

SEE ALSO
       smtp-sink(1), SMTP/LMTP message dump

LICENSE
       The Secure Mailer license must be distributed with this software.

AUTHOR(S)
       Wietse Venema
       IBM T.J. Watson Research
       P.O. Box 704
       Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, USA

       Wietse Venema
       Google, Inc.
       111 8th Avenue
       New York, NY 10011, USA

                                                                                        SMTP-SOURCE(1)
