ssvncviewer(1)                    SSVNC                   ssvncviewer(1)

NAME
       ssvncviewer - an X viewer client for VNC

SYNOPSIS
       ssvncviewer [options] [host][:display]
       ssvncviewer [options] [host][::port]
       ssvncviewer [options] exec=[cmd+args...]
       ssvncviewer [options] fd=n
       ssvncviewer [options] /path/to/unix/socket
       ssvncviewer [options] unix=/path/to/unix/socket
       ssvncviewer [options] -listen [display]
       ssvncviewer -help

DESCRIPTION
       ssvncviewer  is  an Xt-based client application for the VNC (Vir‐
       tual Network Computing) system. It can connect to any VNC-compat‐
       ible server such as Xvnc, WinVNC, or x11vnc, allowing you to con‐
       trol desktop environment of a different machine.

       ssvncviewer is an enhanced version of the  tightvnc  unix  viewer
       that  can  take  advantage of features in the x11vnc and UltraVNC
       VNC servers.  See below for the description of these features.

       You can use F8 to display a  pop-up  utility  menu  (also  F7  on
       MacOSX.)  Press F8 twice to pass single F8 to the remote side.

OPTIONS
       -help  Prints a short usage notice to stderr.

       -listen
              Make  the  viewer  listen on port 5500+display for reverse
              connections from a server. WinVNC supports reverse connec‐
              tions using the "Add New Client" menu option, or the -con‐
              nect command line option. Xvnc requires  the  use  of  the
              helper program vncconnect.

       -via gateway
              Automatically  create  encrypted TCP tunnel to the gateway
              machine before connection, connect  to  the  host  through
              that  tunnel  (TightVNC-specific). By default, this option
              invokes SSH  local  port  forwarding,  assuming  that  SSH
              client  binary  can be accessed as /usr/bin/ssh. Note that
              when using the -via option, the host machine  name  should
              be  specified  as  known  to  the  gateway  machine,  e.g.
              "localhost" denotes the gateway,  not  the  machine  where
              vncviewer  was launched. See the ENVIRONMENT section below
              for the information on configuring the -via option.

       -shared
              When connecting,  specify  that  a  shared  connection  is
              requested. In TightVNC, this is the default mode, allowing
              you to share the desktop with other clients already  using
              it.

       -noshared
              When  connecting,  specify  that  the  session  may not be
              shared.  This  would  either  disconnect  other  connected
              clients or refuse your connection, depending on the server
              configuration.

       -viewonly
              Disable transfer of mouse and  keyboard  events  from  the
              client to the server.

       -fullscreen
              Start  in full-screen mode. Please be aware that operating
              in full-screen mode may confuse X window  managers.  Typi‐
              cally,  such  conflicts  cause incorrect handling of input
              focus or make the viewer  window  disappear  mysteriously.
              See  the  grabKeyboard  setting  in  the RESOURCES section
              below for a method to solve input focus problem.

       -noraiseonbeep
              By default, the viewer shows  and  raises  its  window  on
              remote beep (bell) event. This option disables such behav‐
              iour (TightVNC-specific).

       -user username
              User name for Unix login authentication. Default is to use
              current  Unix  user  name.  If  this option was given, the
              viewer will prefer  Unix  login  authentication  over  the
              standard VNC authentication.

       -passwd passwd-file
              File  from  which to get the password (as generated by the
              vncpasswd(1) program). This option affects only the  stan‐
              dard VNC authentication.

       -encodings encoding-list
              TightVNC supports several different compression methods to
              encode screen updates; this option specifies a set of them
              to  use  in  order  of preference. Encodings are specified
              separated with spaces, and must thus be enclosed in quotes
              if  more  than  one  is  specified.  Commas may be used to
              avoid spaces.  Available encodings, in default order for a
              remote  connection, are "copyrect tight hextile zlib corre
              rre raw". For a local connection (to  the  same  machine),
              the  default  order  to try is "raw copyrect tight hextile
              zlib corre rre". Raw encoding is always assumed as a  last
              option  if  no other encoding can be used for some reason.
              For more information on encodings, see the section  ENCOD‐
              INGS below.

       -bgr233
              Always  use  the  BGR233 format to encode pixel data. This
              reduces network traffic, but  colors  may  be  represented
              inaccurately.  The  bgr233 format is an 8-bit "true color"
              format, with 2 bits blue, 3 bits green, and 3 bits red.

       -owncmap
              Try to use a PseudoColor visual and  a  private  colormap.
              This allows the VNC server to control the colormap.

       -truecolour, -truecolor
              Try to use a TrueColor visual.

       -depth depth
              On  an  X server which supports multiple TrueColor visuals
              of different depths, attempt to use the specified one  (in
              bits  per  pixel);  if  successful,  this  depth  will  be
              requested from the VNC server.

       -compresslevel level
              Use specified compression level  (0..9)  for  "tight"  and
              "zlib" encodings (TightVNC-specific). Level 1 uses minimum
              of CPU time and achieves weak  compression  ratios,  while
              level  9  offers  best compression but is slow in terms of
              CPU time consumption on the server side. Use  high  levels
              with  very  slow  network connections, and low levels when
              working over high-speed LANs. It's not recommended to  use
              compression  level  0,  reasonable  choices start from the
              level 1.

       -quality level
              Use the  specified  JPEG  quality  level  (0..9)  for  the
              "tight"  encoding  (TightVNC-specific).  Quality  level  0
              denotes bad image quality but very impressive  compression
              ratios,  while  level  9 offers very good image quality at
              lower compression ratios. Note that  the  "tight"  encoder
              uses  JPEG  to  encode  only  those screen areas that look
              suitable for lossy compression, so quality  level  0  does
              not always mean unacceptable image quality.

       -nojpeg
              Disable   lossy   JPEG   compression   in  Tight  encoding
              (TightVNC-specific).  Disabling JPEG compression is not  a
              good  idea  in  typical  cases,  as  that  makes the Tight
              encoder less efficient. You might want to use this  option
              if  it's  absolutely  necessary  to  achieve perfect image
              quality (see also the -quality option).

       -nocursorshape
              Disable cursor shape updates, protocol extensions used  to
              handle  remote cursor movements locally on the client side
              (TightVNC-specific). Using cursor shape updates  decreases
              delays with remote cursor movements, and can improve band‐
              width usage dramatically.

       -x11cursor
              Use a real X11 cursor with X-style cursor  shape  updates,
              instead  of  drawing the remote cursor on the framebuffer.
              This option also disables the  dot  cursor,  and  disables
              cursor position updates in non-fullscreen mode.

       -autopass
              Read a plain-text password from stdin. This option affects
              only the standard VNC authentication.

Enhanced TightVNC Viewer (SSVNC) OPTIONS
       Enhanced TightVNC Viewer (SSVNC) web page is located at:

       http://www.karlrunge.com/x11vnc/ssvnc.html

       Note: ZRLE and ZYWRLE encodings are now supported.

       Note: F9 is shortcut to Toggle FullScreen mode.

       Note: In -listen mode set the env var. SSVNC_MULTIPLE_LISTEN=1
              to allow more than one incoming  VNC  server  at  a  time.
              This  is  the  same  as -multilisten described below.  Set
              SSVNC_MULTIPLE_LISTEN=MAX:n to  allow  no  more  than  "n"
              simultaneous reverse connections.

              If  the  host:port  is specified as "exec=command args..."
              then instead of making a TCP/IP socket connection  to  the
              remote  VNC  server, "command args..." is executed and the
              viewer is attached to its stdio.  This enables  tunnelling
              established  via  an  external command, e.g. an stunnel(8)
              that does not involve a listening socket.  This mode  does
              not work for -listen reverse connections.  To not have the
              exec= pid killed at exit, set SSVNC_NO_KILL_EXEC_CMD=1.

              If the host:port is specified as "fd=n" then it is assumed
              n is an already opened file descriptor to the socket. (i.e
              the parent did fork+exec)

              If the host:port contains a '/' and  exists  in  the  file
              system   it   is   interpreted  as  a  unix-domain  socket
              (AF_LOCAL/AF_UNIX instead of AF_INET)  Prefix  with  unix=
              to force interpretation as a unix-domain socket.

       -multilisten
              As  in -listen (reverse connection listening) except allow
              more than one incoming VNC server to  be  connected  at  a
              time.  The default for -listen of only one at a time tries
              to play it safe by not allowing anyone on the  network  to
              put  (many)  desktops on your screen over a long window of
              time. Use -multilisten for no limit.

       -acceptpopup
              In -listen (reverse  connection  listening)  mode  when  a
              reverse  VNC  connection  comes  in  show  a  popup asking
              whether to  Accept  or  Reject  the  connection.   The  IP
              address  of the connecting host is shown.  Same as setting
              the env. var. SSVNC_ACCEPT_POPUP=1.

       -acceptpopupsc
              As in -acceptpopup except  assume  UltraVNC  Single  Click
              (SC)  server.   Retrieve  User  and ComputerName info from
              UltraVNC Server and display in the Popup.

       -use64 In -bgr233 mode, use 64 colors instead of 256.

       -bgr222
              Same as -use64.

       -use8  In -bgr233 mode, use 8 colors instead of 256.

       -bgr111
              Same as -use8.

       -16bpp If the vnc viewer X display is depth 24 at 32bpp request a
              16bpp format from the VNC server to cut network traffic by
              up to 2X, then tranlate the pixels to 32bpp locally.

       -bgr565
              Same as -16bpp.

       -grey  Use a grey scale for the 16- and 8-bpp modes.

       -alpha Use alphablending transparency for local cursors requires:
              x11vnc  server,  both  client and server must be 32bpp and
              same endianness.

       -scale str
              Scale the desktop locally.  The string "str" can a  float‐
              ing point ratio, e.g. "0.9", or a fraction, e.g. "3/4", or
              WxH, e.g. 1280x1024.  Use "fit"  to  fit  in  the  current
              screen size.  Use "auto" to fit in the window size.  "str"
              can also be set by the env. var. SSVNC_SCALE.

              If you observe mouse trail  painting  errors,  enable  X11
              Cursor mode (either via Popup or -x11cursor.)

              Note  that  scaling is done in software and so can be slow
              and requires more memory.  Some speedup Tips:

              ZRLE is faster than Tight in this mode.  When  scaling  is
              first   detected,   the  encoding  will  be  automatically
              switched to ZRLE.  Use the Popup menu if you  want  to  go
              back  to  Tight.  Set SSVNC_PRESERVE_ENCODING=1 to disable
              this.

              Use a solid background on the remote side.  (e.g. manually
              or via x11vnc -solid ...)

              If  the  remote server is x11vnc, try client side caching:
              x11vnc -ncache 10 ...

       -ycrop n
              Only show the top n rows of the framebuffer.  For use with
              x11vnc  -ncache  client  caching option to help "hide" the
              pixel cache region.  Use a negative value  (e.g.  -1)  for
              autodetection.   Autodetection  will  always take place if
              the remote fb height is more than 2 times the width.

       -sbwidth n
              Scrollbar width for x11vnc -ncache mode (-ycrop),  default
              is  very  narrow: 2 pixels, it is narrow to avoid distrac‐
              tion in -ycrop mode.

       -nobell
              Disable bell.

       -rawlocal
              Prefer raw encoding for localhost,  default  is  no,  i.e.
              assumes you have a SSH tunnel instead.

       -notty Try to avoid using the terminal for interactive responses:
              use windows for messages and prompting instead.   Messages
              will also be printed to terminal.

       -sendclipboard
              Send  the  X  CLIPBOARD  selection  (i.e.  Ctrl+C, Ctrl+V)
              instead of the X PRIMARY selection (mouse select and  mid‐
              dle button paste.)

       -sendalways
              Whenever the mouse enters the VNC viewer main window, send
              the selection to  the  VNC  server  even  if  it  has  not
              changed.   This is like the Xt resource translation Selec‐
              tionToVNC(always)

       -recvtext
              str   When cut text  is  received  from  the  VNC  server,
              ssvncviewer  will  set  both the X PRIMARY and the X CLIP‐
              BOARD local selections.  To control which is set,  specify
              'str' as 'primary', 'clipboard', or 'both' (the default.)

       -graball
              Grab  the  entire X server when in fullscreen mode, needed
              by some old window managers like fvwm2.

       -popupfix
              Warp the popup back to the  pointer  position,  needed  by
              some old window managers like fvwm2.

       -grabkbd
              Grab  the  X  keyboard  when in fullscreen mode, needed by
              some window managers. Same as -grabkeyboard.  -grabkbd  is
              the default, use -nograbkbd to disable.

       -bs, -nobs
              Whether  or  not to use X server Backingstore for the main
              viewer window.  The default is to not, mainly because most
              Linux,  etc,  systems X servers disable *all* Backingstore
              by default.  To re-enable it put

              Option "Backingstore"

              in the Device section of /etc/X11/xorg.conf.  In -bs  mode
              with  no  X  server  backingstore, whenever an area of the
              screen is re-exposed it must go out to the VNC  server  to
              retrieve the pixels. This is too slow.

              In  -nobs  mode, memory is allocated by the viewer to pro‐
              vide its own backing of the main viewer window. This actu‐
              ally  makes  some  activities  faster  (changes  in  large
              regions) but can appear to "flash" too much.

       -noshm Disable use of MIT shared  memory  extension  (not  recom‐
              mended)

       -termchat
              Do  the  UltraVNC  chat  in  the  terminal vncviewer is in
              instead of in an independent window.

       -unixpw str
              Useful for logging into x11vnc in -unixpw mode. "str" is a
              string  that  allows  many ways to enter the Unix Username
              and Unix Password.  These characters:  username,  newline,
              password, newline are sent to the VNC server after any VNC
              authentication has taken place.   Under  x11vnc  they  are
              used  for  the  -unixpw login.  Other VNC servers could do
              something similar.

              You can also indicate "str" via the  environment  variable
              SSVNC_UNIXPW.

              Note  that  the  Escape key is actually sent first to tell
              x11vnc to not echo the  Unix  Username  back  to  the  VNC
              viewer. Set SSVNC_UNIXPW_NOESC=1 to override this.

              If  str  is ".", then you are prompted at the command line
              for the username and password in the normal way.   If  str
              is "-" the stdin is read via getpass(3) for username@pass‐
              word.  Otherwise if str is a file, it is  opened  and  the
              first  line read is taken as the Unix username and the 2nd
              as the password. If str prefixed  by  "rm:"  the  file  is
              removed after reading. Otherwise, if str has a "@" charac‐
              ter, it is taken as username@password. Otherwise, the pro‐
              gram exits with an error. Got all that?

       -repeater str
              This  is  for  use  with UltraVNC repeater proxy described
              here: http://www.uvnc.com/addons/repeater.html.  The "str"
              is the ID string to be sent to the repeater.  E.g. ID:1234
              It can also be the hostname and port or display of the VNC
              server,  e.g.  12.34.56.78:0  or  snoopy.com:1.  Note that
              when using -repeater, the host:dpy on the cmdline  is  the
              repeater  server,  NOT  the VNC server.  The repeater will
              connect you.

              Example: vncviewer ... -repeater ID:3333 repeat.host:5900

              Example: vncviewer ... -repeater vhost:0 repeat.host:5900

              Use, e.g., '-repeater SCIII=ID:3210' if the repeater is  a
              Single Click III (SSL) repeater (repeater_SSL.exe) and you
              are passing the SSL part of the connection  through  stun‐
              nel,  socat,  etc.   This  way  the  magic UltraVNC string
              'testB' needed to work with the repeater is sent to it.

       -rfbversion str
              Set the advertised RFB  version.   E.g.:  -rfbversion  3.6
              For some servers, e.g. UltraVNC this needs to be done.

       -ultradsm
              UltraVNC  has  symmetric  private  encryption DSM plugins.
              See http://www.uvnc.com/features/encryption.html.   It  is
              assumed  you  are  using  a  unix program (e.g. our ultra‐
              vnc_dsm_helper) to encrypt and decrypt  the  UltraVNC  DSM
              stream.  IN ADDITION TO THAT supply -ultradsm to tell THIS
              viewer to modify the RFB data sent so as to work with  the
              UltraVNC  Server.  For some reason, each RFB msg type must
              be sent twice under DSM.

       -mslogon user
              Use Windows MS Logon to an UltraVNC  server.   Supply  the
              username or "1" to be prompted.  The default is to autode‐
              tect the UltraVNC MS Logon server and prompt for the user‐
              name and password.

              IMPORTANT   NOTE:  The  UltraVNC  MS-Logon  Diffie-Hellman
              exchange is very weak and can be brute forced  to  recover
              your  username  and password in a few seconds of CPU time.
              To be safe, be sure to use an additional encrypted  tunnel
              (e.g. SSL or SSH) for the entire VNC session.

       -chatonly
              Try to be a client that only does UltraVNC text chat. This
              mode is used by x11vnc to present a  chat  window  on  the
              physical  X11 console (i.e. to chat with the person at the
              display).

       -env VAR=VALUE
              To save writing a shell script to  set  environment  vari‐
              ables,  specify  as  many as you need on the command line.
              For example, -env  SSVNC_MULTIPLE_LISTEN=MAX:5  -env  EDI‐
              TOR=vi

       -noipv6
              Disable all IPv6 sockets.  Same as VNCVIEWER_NO_IPV6=1.

       -noipv4
              Disable all IPv4 sockets.  Same as VNCVIEWER_NO_IPV4=1.

       -printres
              Print  out  the  Ssvnc  X resources (appdefaults) and then
              exit. You can save them to a file and customize them (e.g.
              the  keybindings  and  Popup menu)  Then point to the file
              via XENVIRONMENT or XAPPLRESDIR.

       -pipeline
              Like TurboVNC, request the next framebuffer update as soon
              as  possible  instead of waiting until the end of the cur‐
              rent framebuffer update coming in.  Helps  'pipeline'  the
              updates.   This  is currently the default, use -nopipeline
              to disable.

       -appshare
              Enable features for use with x11vnc's -appshare mode where
              instead of sharing the full desktop only the application's
              windows are shared.  Viewer multilisten mode  is  used  to
              create the multiple windows: -multilisten is implied.  See
              'x11vnc -appshare -help' more  information  on  the  mode.
              Features  enabled in the viewer under -appshare are: Mini‐
              mum extra text in the  title,  auto  -ycrop  is  disabled,
              x11vnc  -remote_prefix  X11VNC_APPSHARE_CMD: message chan‐
              nel, x11vnc  initial  window  position  hints.   See  also
              Escape Keys below for additional key and mouse bindings.

       -escape str
              This  sets the 'Escape Keys' modifier sequence and enables
              escape keys mode.  When the modifier keys escape  sequence
              is held down, the next keystroke is interpreted locally to
              perform a special action instead  of  being  sent  to  the
              remote VNC server.

              Use  '-escape  default' for the default modifier sequence.
              (Unix: Alt_L,Super_L and MacOSX: Control_L,Meta_L)

              Here are the 'Escape Keys: Help+Set' instructions from the
              Popup:

              Escape  Keys:   Enter  a  comma separated list of modifier
              keys to be the 'escape sequence'.   When  these  keys  are
              held  down,  the  next keystroke is interpreted locally to
              invoke a special action  instead  of  being  sent  to  the
              remote VNC server.  In other words, a set of 'Hot Keys'.

              Here is the list of local key mappings to special actions:

              r: refresh desktop  b: toggle bell  c: toggle full-color

              f: file transfer    x: x11cursor    z: toggle Tight/ZRLE

              l: full screen      g: graball      e: escape keys dialog

              s: scale dialog     +: scale up (=) -: scale down (_)

              t: text chat                        a: alphablend cursor

              V: toggle viewonly  Q: quit viewer  123456: UltraVNC scale
              1/n

              Arrow keys: pan the viewport about 10% for each keypress.

              PageUp/PageDown: pan the viewport by  a  screenful  verti‐
              cally.

              Home/End: pan the viewport by a screenful horizontally.

              KeyPad  Arrows:  pan the viewport by 1 pixel for each key‐
              press.

              Dragging the Mouse with  Button1  pressed  also  pans  the
              viewport.

              Clicking Mouse Button3 brings up the Popup Menu.

              The  above  mappings  are  always active in ViewOnly mode,
              unless you set the Escape Keys value to 'never'.

              x11vnc -appshare hot-keys:  x11vnc has a  simple  applica‐
              tion  sharing  mode  that enables the viewer-side to move,
              resize, or raise the remote toplevel windows.   To  enable
              it, hold down Shift + the Escape Keys and press these:

              Arrow keys: move the remote window around in its desktop.

              PageUp/PageDn/Home/End:  resize the remote window.

              +/-: raise or lower the remote window.

              M  or  Button1  move win to local position;  D or Button3:
              delete remote win.

              If the Escape Keys value below is set to 'default' then  a
              default list of of modifier keys is used.  For Unix it is:
              Alt_L,Super_L  and  for  MacOSX  it  is  Control_L,Meta_L.
              Note:  the  Super_L  key usually has a Windows(TM) Flag on
              it.  Also note the _L and _R mean the key is on  the  LEFT
              or RIGHT side of the keyboard.

              On Unix   the default is Alt and Windows keys on Left side
              of keyboard.  On MacOSX the default is Control and Command
              keys on Left side of keyboard.

              Example:  Press  and  hold the Alt and Windows keys on the
              LEFT side of the keyboard and then press 'c' to toggle the
              full-color  state.   Or  press  't' to toggle the ultravnc
              Text Chat window, etc.

              To use something besides the default, supply a comma sepa‐
              rated  list  (or  a single one) from: Shift_L Shift_R Con‐
              trol_L Control_R Alt_L Alt_R Meta_L Meta_R Super_L Super_R
              Hyper_L Hyper_R or Mode_switch.

        New Popup actions:

               ViewOnly:                ~ -viewonly
               Disable Bell:            ~ -nobell
               Cursor Shape:            ~ -nocursorshape
               X11 Cursor:              ~ -x11cursor
               Cursor Alphablend:       ~ -alpha
               Toggle Tight/Hextile:    ~ -encodings hextile...
               Toggle Tight/ZRLE:       ~ -encodings zrle...
               Toggle ZRLE/ZYWRLE:      ~ -encodings zywrle...
               Quality  Level             ~  -quality  (both  Tight  and
              ZYWRLE)
               Compress Level           ~ -compresslevel
               Disable JPEG:            ~ -nojpeg  (Tight)
               Pipeline Updates         ~ -pipeline

               Full Color                 as many colors as local screen
              allows.
               Grey  scale (16 & 8-bpp)  ~ -grey, for low colors 16/8bpp
              modes only.
               16 bit color (BGR565)    ~ -16bpp / -bgr565
               8  bit color (BGR233)    ~ -bgr233
               256 colors               ~ -bgr233 default # of colors.
                64 colors               ~ -bgr222 / -use64
                 8 colors               ~ -bgr111 / -use8
               Scale Viewer             ~ -scale
               Escape Keys: Toggle      ~ -escape
               Escape Keys: Help+Set    ~ -escape
               Set Y Crop (y-max)       ~ -ycrop
               Set Scrollbar Width      ~ -sbwidth
               XGrabServer              ~ -graball

               UltraVNC Extensions:

                 Set 1/n Server Scale     Ultravnc ext. Scale desktop by
              1/n.
                 Text Chat                Ultravnc ext. Do Text Chat.
                 File  Transfer             Ultravnc  ext. File xfer via
              Java helper.
                 Single Window            Ultravnc ext. Grab and view  a
              single window.
                                          (select then click on the win‐
              dow you want).
                 Disable Remote Input     Ultravnc ext. Try  to  prevent
              input and
                                          viewing of monitor at physical
              display.

               Note: the Ultravnc extensions only apply to servers  that
              support
                     them.  x11vnc/libvncserver supports some of them.

               Send Clipboard not Primary  ~ -sendclipboard
               Send Selection Every time   ~ -sendalways

ENCODINGS
       The  server supplies information in whatever format is desired by
       the client, in order to make the client as easy  as  possible  to
       implement.  If the client represents itself as able to use multi‐
       ple formats, the server will choose one.

       Pixel format refers to the representation of an individual pixel.
       The  most  common  formats are 24 and 16 bit "true-color" values,
       and 8-bit "color map" representations,  where  an  arbitrary  map
       converts the color number to RGB values.

       Encoding  refers to how a rectangle of pixels are sent (all pixel
       information in VNC is sent as rectangles).  All  rectangles  come
       with  a  header giving the location and size of the rectangle and
       an encoding type used by the data which follows. These types  are
       listed below.

       Raw    The  raw  encoding simply sends width*height pixel values.
              All clients are required to support  this  encoding  type.
              Raw  is also the fastest when the server and viewer are on
              the same machine, as the connection speed  is  essentially
              infinite and raw encoding minimizes processing time.

       CopyRect
              The Copy Rectangle encoding is efficient when something is
              being moved; the only data sent is the location of a  rec‐
              tangle  from  which  data  should be copied to the current
              location. Copyrect  could  also  be  used  to  efficiently
              transmit a repeated pattern.

       RRE    The Rise-and-Run-length-Encoding is basically a 2D version
              of run-length encoding (RLE). In this encoding, a sequence
              of  identical  pixels are compressed to a single value and
              repeat count. In VNC, this is  implemented  with  a  back‐
              ground color, and then specifications of an arbitrary num‐
              ber of subrectangles and color for each. This is an  effi‐
              cient encoding for large blocks of constant color.

       CoRRE  This  is  a  minor  variation  on  RRE, using a maximum of
              255x255 pixel rectangles. This allows for single-byte val‐
              ues  to  be used, reducing packet size. This is in general
              more efficient, because the savings  from  sending  1-byte
              values generally outweighs the losses from the (relatively
              rare) cases where very large regions are painted the  same
              color.

       Hextile
              Here, rectangles are split up in to 16x16 tiles, which are
              sent in a predetermined order. The data within  the  tiles
              is  sent either raw or as a variant on RRE. Hextile encod‐
              ing is usually the best choice  for  using  in  high-speed
              network environments (e.g. Ethernet local-area networks).

       Zlib   Zlib  is  a very simple encoding that uses zlib library to
              compress raw pixel data. This encoding achieves good  com‐
              pression, but consumes a lot of CPU time. Support for this
              encoding is provided for compatibility  with  VNC  servers
              that  might  not  understand  Tight encoding which is more
              efficient than Zlib in nearly all real-life situations.

       Tight  Like Zlib encoding, Tight encoding uses  zlib  library  to
              compress the pixel data, but it pre-processes data to max‐
              imize compression ratios, and to  minimize  CPU  usage  on
              compression.  Also, JPEG compression may be used to encode
              color-rich screen areas (see the description  of  -quality
              and  -nojpeg options above). Tight encoding is usually the
              best choice for low-bandwidth network  environments  (e.g.
              slow modem connections).

       ZRLE   The  SSVNC viewer has ported the RealVNC (www.realvnc.com)
              ZRLE encoding to the unix tightvnc viewer.

       ZYWRLE The SSVNC viewer has  ported  the  Hitachi  lossy  wavelet
              based   ZRLE   encoding   from  http://mobile.hitachi-sys‐
              tem.co.jp/publications/ZYWRLE/  to   the   unix   tightvnc
              viewer.

RESOURCES
       X  resources that vncviewer knows about, aside from the normal Xt
       resources, are as follows:

       shareDesktop
              Equivalent of -shared/-noshared options. Default true.

       viewOnly
              Equivalent of -viewonly option. Default false.

       fullScreen
              Equivalent of -fullscreen option. Default false.

       grabKeyboard
              Grab keyboard in full-screen mode. This can help to  solve
              problems with losing keyboard focus. Default false.

       raiseOnBeep
              Equivalent  of  -noraiseonbeep  option, when set to false.
              Default true.

       passwordFile
              Equivalent of -passwd option.

       userLogin
              Equivalent of -user option.

       passwordDialog
              Whether to use a dialog box to get the password (true)  or
              get it from the tty (false). Irrelevant if passwordFile is
              set. Default false.

       encodings
              Equivalent of -encodings option.

       compressLevel
              Equivalent of -compresslevel option (TightVNC-specific).

       qualityLevel
              Equivalent of -quality option (TightVNC-specific).

       enableJPEG
              Equivalent of -nojpeg option, when set to  false.  Default
              true.

       useRemoteCursor
              Equivalent  of  -nocursorshape  option,  when set to false
              (TightVNC-specific). Default true.

       useBGR233
              Equivalent of -bgr233 option. Default false.

       nColours
              When using BGR233, try to allocate this many "exact"  col‐
              ors  from  the BGR233 color cube. When using a shared col‐
              ormap, setting this resource lower leaves more colors  for
              other  X clients. Irrelevant when using truecolor. Default
              is 256 (i.e. all of them).

       useSharedColours
              If the number of "exact" BGR233 colors successfully  allo‐
              cated  is  less than 256 then the rest are filled in using
              the "nearest" colors available. This resource says whether
              to only use the "exact" BGR233 colors for this purpose, or
              whether to use other clients'  "shared"  colors  as  well.
              Default true (i.e. use other clients' colors).

       forceOwnCmap
              Equivalent of -owncmap option. Default false.

       forceTrueColour
              Equivalent of -truecolour option. Default false.

       requestedDepth
              Equivalent of -depth option.

       useSharedMemory
              Use  MIT shared memory extension if on the same machine as
              the X server. Default true.

       wmDecorationWidth, wmDecorationHeight
              The total width and height taken up by window manager dec‐
              orations.   This  is used to calculate the maximum size of
              the VNC viewer window.  Default is width 4, height 24.

       bumpScrollTime, bumpScrollPixels
              When in full screen mode and the  VNC  desktop  is  bigger
              than  the  X display, scrolling happens whenever the mouse
              hits  the  edge  of  the  screen.  The  maximum  speed  of
              scrolling  is bumpScrollPixels pixels every bumpScrollTime
              milliseconds. The actual speed of scrolling will be slower
              than  this,  of course, depending on how fast your machine
              is.  Default 20 pixels every 25 milliseconds.

       popupButtonCount
              The number of buttons in the popup window. See the  README
              file for more information on how to customize the buttons.

       debug  For debugging. Default false.

       rawDelay, copyRectDelay
              For  debugging, see the README file for details. Default 0
              (off).

ENVIRONMENT
       When  started  with  the  -via  option,   vncviewer   reads   the
       VNC_VIA_CMD environment variable, expands patterns beginning with
       the "%" character, and executes result as a command assuming that
       it  would  create  TCP tunnel that should be used for VNC connec‐
       tion.  If  not  set,  this  environment  variable   defaults   to
       "/usr/bin/ssh -f -L %L:%H:%R %G sleep 20".

       The  following  patterns  are recognized in the VNC_VIA_CMD (note
       that all the patterns %G, %H, %L and %R must be  present  in  the
       command template):

       %%     A literal "%";

       %G     gateway host name;

       %H     remote VNC host name, as known to the gateway;

       %L     local TCP port number;

       %R     remote TCP port number.

SEE ALSO
       vncserver(1),  x11vnc(1),  ssvnc(1),  Xvnc(1), vncpasswd(1), vnc‐
       connect(1),       ssh(1),        http://www.karlrunge.com/x11vnc,
       http://www.karlrunge.com/x11vnc/ssvnc.html

AUTHORS
       Original  VNC  was  developed  in  AT&T  Laboratories  Cambridge.
       TightVNC additions was implemented by Constantin Kaplinsky.  Many
       other  people  participated  in development, testing and support.
       Karl J. Runge  added  all  of  the  SSVNC  related  features  and
       improvements.

       Man page authors:
       Marcus Brinkmann <Marcus.Brinkmann@ruhr-uni-bochum.de>,
       Terran Melconian <terran@consistent.org>,
       Tim Waugh <twaugh@redhat.com>,
       Constantin Kaplinsky <const@ce.cctpu.edu.ru>
       Karl J. Runge <runge@karlrunge.com>

                               April 2010                 ssvncviewer(1)
