STYX(1)                                                       General Commands Manual                                                      STYX(1)

NAME
       styx — A combined parser and scanner generator

SYNOPSIS
       styx  [-diagnose]  [-verbose]  [-makeC]  [-makeIMG]  [-makeINT]  [-shortform]  [-BINSTYX=directory]  [-GENSTYX=directory]  [-SPESTYX=direc‐
       tory] language

       stypp [-charset=string]  [-wprint]  [-prepar=string]  [-premac=string]  [-prefun=string]   [-Start=string]   [-xaron]   [-early]   [-shift‐
       fun=string]  [-reducefun=string]  [-ppfun=string]  [-BINSTYX=path] srclang tgtlang filename

       stydoc    [-StyxPath=path]    [-Template=path]    [-RefAlias=string]    [-recursiv]    [-prodcom]    [-keepNTs=string]    [-noClass=string]
       [-exProds=string]  [-ignRRef=string]  [-BINSTYX=path] grammarfile outfile

       ctoh [-ct]  [-force]  [-CPATH=path]  [-HPATH=path]  [-PRJ=path]  [-DPATH=path]  [-DROOT=path]

       ptm_img [-FileName=path]  [-charset=string]  [-skipset=string]  [-binmode]  [-wprint]  [-prepar=string]  [-premac=string]  [-prefun=string]
       [-Start=string]  [-xaron]  [-early]  [-shiftfun=string]  [-reducefun=string]  [-BINSTYX=path] language image

       lim_test  [-charset=string]   [-binmode]   [-wprint]   [-prepar=string]   [-premac=string]  [-prefun=string]  [-tokens]  [-symbols]  [-BIN‐
       STYX=path] language filename

       pim_test  [-charset=string]   [-binmode]   [-wprint]   [-prepar=string]   [-premac=string]   [-prefun=string]   [-Start=string]    [-xaron]
       [-early]  [-shiftfun=string]  [-reducefun=string]  [-tree]  [-BINSTYX=path] language filename

DESCRIPTION
       This  manual  page  documents  briefly  the styx, stypp, stydoc, ctoh, lim_test and pim_test       commands.  It was written for the Debian
       GNU/Linux distribution because the original programs don't have manual pages, but have documentation in HTML format (see below).

       styx translates token and syntax descriptions contained in $SPESTYX/language.sty yielding scanner and parser tables as well as a functional
       interface to the abstract derivation tree.

       stypp is sort of a ``pretty printer'' for source files written in a styx-defined language. Furthermore it can be used to port source files,
       provided source and target languages have equivalent abstract syntax.

       stydoc generates HTML reference documentation for a grammar specified in grammarfile using a template.

       ctoh is used to create header files from C sources generated by styx. It is taken from the upstream author's own project development  envi‐
       ronment where source files are written in a manner allowing interface definitions to be automatically generated.

       ptm_img translates a source file specified by the FileName option to a binary image. If the FileName option is omitted, the image file must
       exist and the program writes the derivation tree to stdout.

       lim_test uses a scanner image file for language to scan the source in filename writing the token stream to stdout.

       pim_test uses scanner and parser image files for language to parse the source in filename writing the derivation tree to stdout.

ENVIRONMENT
       Upstream authors use non-standard conventions for command-line options and environment variables, to the effect that the  latter  are  best
       viewed as options which default to the value of the identically named environment variable if not specified.

       For  styx,  SPESTYX is the search path for language specifications (language.sty), scanner and parser image files are located using BINSTYX
       while the location of generated C code is determined by GENSTYX.

       stypp, stydoc, ptm_img, lim_test and pim_test use BINSTYX to locate scanner and parser image files language.lim and language.pim.

SEE ALSO
       The programs are documented fully in The Styx Handbook available in the  source  distribution  in  LinuxDoc  and  HTML  format.  On  Debian
       GNU/Linux systems the documentation is contained in the styx-doc package.

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Siggy Brentrup <bsb@debian.org> for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).  Permission is
       granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version  1.1  or  any  later
       version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts and no Back-Cover Texts.

                                                                                                                                           STYX(1)
