TIGERCRON(8)                                                  Administrator Commands                                                  TIGERCRON(8)

NAME
       tigercron - Cron utility for Tiger UNIX Security Checker

SYNOPSIS
       tigercron [controlfile] [-B basedir] [tigeroptions...]

DESCRIPTION
       Tigercron  is used to run periodically checks from the Tiger UNIX Security Checker. Tigercron reads a control file which is usually located
       in '/etc/tiger/cronrc' although it can also be specificied as the first argument when calling the program.  The format of this control file
       is  the  same as for the cron program, each line indicates when different checks from Tiger will be run.  The user can indicate where Tiger
       is installed through the -B basedir parameter, any other additional options provided in the command line will be passed on to configure  to
       configure Tiger based on them (as described in tiger (8)).

       Tigercron  runs  the specified checks and compares their reports with previous stored reports (under /var/log/tiger). It will then mail the
       user defined in '/etc/tiger/tigerrc' (Tiger_Mail_RCPT) the results.

       When a module is run, tigercron checks:

       ·   If Tiger_Cron_Template is set to Y in tigerrc. If it is, it checks if there is a template stating which are the expected results.

       ·   If Tiger_Cron_CheckPrev is set to Y in tigerrc. If it is, it checks if there is a previous run of the module it can check against.

       A differential report is generated depending on the module reports and previous run and is sent through e-mail. These  reports  provide  an
       easy  way to detect intrusions even if no configuration of templates has been done. In the event of an intrusion a Tiger check might detect
       something specific (file changes, new processes, new users, etc.) and this alert mechanism provides a way to turn Tiger into a Host  Intru‐
       sion Detection System (HIDS).

       The ability of it to work as a proper HIDS is based on a good customization of the cronrc file. Modules that check events to which the host
       is most exposed to should be run often in order to detect deviations from normal behaviour.

OPTIONS
       Tigercron uses the same options as Tiger. A controlfile can be defined also to override the default.

FILES
       /etc/tiger/tigerrc
              Configuration file for the Tiger tool.

       /etc/tiger/cronrc
              Configuration file for the Tigercron tool.

       /var/log/tiger
              Location of the log messages generated by Tiger when run through cron

       /var/lib/tiger/work
              Working directory used by Tiger scripts to create temporary files.

SEE ALSO
       tigexp(8),tiger(8),cron(8),crontab(5)

       The deficiencies of using tigercron as a HIDS are described in the file README.hostids which  is  provided  with  the  package.  In  Debian
       GNU/Linux you will find this (and other related) documentation at /usr/share/doc/tiger/

BUGS
       Currently  Tigercron  has only one alert mechanism (mail) and signatures are not supported. Thus, alerts could be faked. Also, it is depen‐
       dant on cron and will not work if cron is not working.

AUTHOR
       This manpage was written by Javier Fernandez-Sanguino.

Security                                                         19 September 2003                                                    TIGERCRON(8)
