UPDATE-CATALOG(8)                                                                               Debian                                                                               UPDATE-CATALOG(8)

NAME
       update-catalog - create or update entry in SGML catalog file

SYNOPSIS
       update-catalog [options] --add centralized_catalog ordinary_catalog

       update-catalog [options] --remove centralized_catalog ordinary_catalog

       update-catalog [options] --update-super

DESCRIPTION
       update-catalog  inserts,  updates or removes entries in the SGML centralized catalogs located in /etc/sgml.  To change the SGML super catalog located in /etc/sgml/catalog modify the directory
       contents of /etc/sgml to contain new files or symbolic links having a .cat extension or remove (or move) existing centralized catalogs and regenerate the super  catalog  using  the  --update-
       super option.  See section SUPER CATALOG for details on the generation process.

OPTIONS
       --add  Adds an entry for the ordinary_catalog in the centralized_catalog.

       --remove
              Removes the entry for the ordinary_catalog from the centralized_catalog.

       --update-super
              Regenerates the SGML super catalog from the contents of the /etc/sgml directory.  See section SUPER CATALOG for details on the super catalog generation.

       --quiet
              Prevents the usual diagnostic output.

       --test Prevents the update of the catalog and writes the resulting SGML catalog to standard output.

       --version
              Displays the version information and exits.

       --help Display the usage information and exits.

SUPER CATALOG
       The  super-catalog  located  in  /etc/sgml/catalog cannot be directly modified.  It is generated by the update-catalog --update-super command.  The generation considers files in the /etc/sgml
       directory that have a .cat extension.  For instance files ending in .old or .disabled are not considered.  Before adding a catalog to the super catalog it is parsed and verified in  order  to
       not corrupt the super catalog.  All referenced catalogs are verified to actually exist.  If the check fails, a message is printed and the complete catalog is ignored.  This check ensures that
       a catalog from a package, which is removed but not purged, is removed from the super catalog.

AUTHOR
       Ardo van Rangelrooij <ardo@debian.org>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2001-2004 Ardo van Rangelrooij Copyright © 2012 Helmut Grohne

       This is free software; see the GNU General Public Licence version 2 or later for copying conditions.  There is no warranty.

Debian Project                                                                                 June 2004                                                                             UPDATE-CATALOG(8)
