upstart-udev-bridge(8)                                                                   System Manager's Manual                                                                   upstart-udev-bridge(8)

NAME
       upstart-udev-bridge - Bridge between Upstart and udev

SYNOPSIS
       upstart-udev-bridge [OPTIONS]...

DESCRIPTION
       upstart-udev-bridge receives information about kernel uevents that udev(8) has completed and creates init(8) events for them.

       It emits events which match the pattern "S-device-A" where 'S' is the udev subsystem and 'A' is one of added, changed or removed, which correspond to the past tense of the udev 'action'.

       See udev(7) and for further details.

       Assuming /sys is mounted, possible values for subsystem for your system are viewable via /sys/class/.

OPTIONS
       --daemon
              Detach and run in the background.

       --debug
              Enable debugging output.

       --help Show brief usage summary.

       --no-strip
              Do  not  modify udev message contents. By default, all udev data will have non-printable bytes removed. This option reverts the behaviour to not modifying the data in any way. This option
              is not recommended since specifying it could result in udev(7) events not being emitted as Upstart events should any of your hardware expose non-printable characters to  the  kernel.  You
              can establish whether this is happening by running without specifying this option but with the --debug option.

       --verbose
              Enable verbose output.

EXAMPLES
       Some examples of Upstart events generated by this bridge:

       net-device-added
              Event emitted when a network device is added.

       net-device-removed
              Event emitted when a network device is removed.

       graphics-device-added
              Event emitted when a graphics device is available to the system.

AUTHOR
       Written by Scott James Remnant <scott@netsplit.com>

BUGS
       Report bugs at <https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/upstart/+bugs>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2009,2010,2011 Canonical Ltd.

       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

SEE ALSO
       init(5) init(8) udev(7)

upstart                                                                                         2011-03-08                                                                         upstart-udev-bridge(8)
