upstart-event-bridge(8)                                                                  System Manager's Manual                                                                  upstart-event-bridge(8)

NAME
       upstart-event-bridge - Bridge between system Upstart and session Upstart

SYNOPSIS
       upstart-event-bridge [OPTIONS]...

DESCRIPTION
       upstart-event-bridge receives information about Upstart system events(8) have completed and creates Upstart session events for them.

       It  emits  events  which  match  the pattern ":sys:*". Forwarding any event that's triggered on the system upstart as well as a virtual "restarted" event when upstart itself is restarted (during
       upgrades).

       See upstart-events(7) and for further details.

       This bridge should be run as a user, after the session bus has been setup and only once per session init.

OPTIONS
       --daemon
              Detach and run in the background.

       --debug
              Enable debugging output.

       --help Show brief usage summary.

       --verbose
              Enable verbose output.

NOTES
       Since events emitted by this bridge at the session level are copies of the original system events, the blocking semantics of the original system events are not retained.

EXAMPLES
       Some examples of Upstart events generated by this bridge:

       :sys:restarted
              Event emitted when the system Upstart is restarted.

       :sys:* Any event emitted on the system Upstart.

AUTHOR
       Written by Stéphane Graber <stgraber@ubuntu.com>

BUGS
       Report bugs at <https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/upstart/+bugs>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2012 Canonical Ltd.

       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

SEE ALSO
       init(5) init(8) events(7)

upstart                                                                                         2013-04-02                                                                        upstart-event-bridge(8)
