xfs_ncheck(8)                                                                            System Manager's Manual                                                                            xfs_ncheck(8)

NAME
       xfs_ncheck - generate pathnames from i-numbers for XFS

SYNOPSIS
       xfs_ncheck [ -i ino ] ... [ -f ] [ -s ] [ -l logdev ] device
       xfs_ncheck -V

DESCRIPTION
       xfs_ncheck  with  no  -i arguments generates an inode number and pathname list of all files on the given filesystem. Names of directory files are followed by /..  The output is not sorted in any
       particular order.  The filesystem to be examined is specified by the device argument, which should be the disk or volume device for the filesystem.  Filesystems  stored  in  files  can  also  be
       checked, using the -f flag.

OPTIONS
       -f       Specifies  that the filesystem image to be processed is stored in a regular file at device (see the mkfs.xfs -d file option). This might happen if an image copy of a filesystem has been
                made into an ordinary file.

       -l logdev
                Specifies the device where the filesystem's external log resides.  Only for those filesystems which use an external log. See the mkfs.xfs -l option, and refer to xfs(5) for  a  detailed
                description of the XFS log.

       -s       Limits the report to special files and files with setuserid mode.  This option may be used to detect violations of security policy.

       -i ino   Limits the report to only those files whose inode numbers follow.  May be given multiple times to select multiple inode numbers.

       -V       Prints the version number and exits.

       If the filesystem is seriously corrupted, or very busy and looks like it is corrupt, a message of the form that would be generated by the xfs_db(8) "check" command may appear.

       xfs_ncheck is only useful with XFS filesystems.

SEE ALSO
       mkfs.xfs(8), xfs(5).

                                                                                                                                                                                            xfs_ncheck(8)
