ALEMBIC(1)                                                                                      User Commands                                                                                      ALEMBIC(1)



NAME
       alembic - manual page for alembic 1.0.7

DESCRIPTION
       usage: -c [-h] [-c CONFIG] [-n NAME] [-x X] [--raiseerr]

              {branches,current,downgrade,edit,heads,history,init,list_templates,merge,revision,show,stamp,upgrade} ...

   positional arguments:
              {branches,current,downgrade,edit,heads,history,init,list_templates,merge,revision,show,stamp,upgrade}

       branches
              Show current branch points. :param config: a :class:`.Config` instance. :param verbose: output in verbose mode.

       current
              Display  the  current revision for a database. :param config: a :class:`.Config` instance. :param verbose: output in verbose mode. :param head_only: deprecated; use ``verbose`` for additional
              output.

       downgrade
              Revert to a previous version. :param config: a :class:`.Config` instance. :param revision: string revision target or range for --sql mode :param sql: if True, use ``--sql`` mode  :param  tag:
              an arbitrary "tag" that can be intercepted by custom ``env.py`` scripts via the :meth:`.EnvironmentContext.get_tag_argument` method.

       edit   Edit revision script(s) using $EDITOR. :param config: a :class:`.Config` instance. :param rev: target revision.

       heads  Show  current available heads in the script directory :param config: a :class:`.Config` instance. :param verbose: output in verbose mode. :param resolve_dependencies: treat dependency version
              as down revisions.

       history
              List changeset scripts in chronological order. :param config: a :class:`.Config` instance. :param rev_range: string revision range :param verbose: output in verbose mode. :param indicate_cur‐
              rent: indicate current revision. ..versionadded:: 0.9.9

       init   Initialize  a  new scripts directory. :param config: a :class:`.Config` object. :param directory: string path of the target directory :param template: string name of the migration environment
              template to use.

       list_templates
              List available templates :param config: a :class:`.Config` object.

       merge  Merge two revisions together. Creates a new migration file. .. versionadded:: 0.7.0 :param config: a :class:`.Config` instance :param message: string message to apply to the  revision  :param
              branch_label: string label name to apply to the new revision :param rev_id: hardcoded revision identifier instead of generating a new one. .. seealso:: :ref:`branches`

       revision
              Create  a new revision file. :param config: a :class:`.Config` object. :param message: string message to apply to the revision; this is the ``-m`` option to ``alembic revision``. :param auto‐
              generate: whether or not to autogenerate the script from the database; this is the ``--autogenerate`` option to ``alembic revision``. :param sql: whether to dump  the  script  out  as  a  SQL
              string;  when  specified,  the script is dumped to stdout. This is the ``--sql`` option to ``alembic revision``. :param head: head revision to build the new revision upon as a parent; this is
              the ``--head`` option to ``alembic revision``. :param splice: whether or not the new revision should be made into a new head of its own; is required when the given ``head`` is  not  itself  a
              head.  This is the ``--splice`` option to ``alembic revision``. :param branch_label: string label to apply to the branch; this is the ``--branch-label`` option to ``alembic revision``. :param
              version_path: string symbol identifying a specific version path from the configuration; this is the ``--version-path`` option to ``alembic revision``. :param rev_id: optional revision identi‐
              fier to use instead of having one generated; this is the ``--rev-id`` option to ``alembic revision``. :param depends_on: optional list of "depends on" identifiers; this is the ``--dependson``
              option to ``alembic revision``. :param process_revision_directives: this is a callable that  takes  the  same  form  as  the  callable  described  at  :para  mref:`.EnvironmentContext.config‐
              ure.process_revision_d irectives`; will be applied to the structure generated by the revision process where it can be altered programmatically. Note that unlike all the other parameters, this
              option is only available via programmatic use of :func:`.command.revision` ..  versionadded:: 0.9.0

       show   Show the revision(s) denoted by the given symbol.  :param config: a :class:`.Config` instance. :param revision: string revision target

       stamp  'stamp' the revision table with the given revision; don't run any migrations. :param config: a :class:`.Config` instance. :param revision: target revision.  :param  sql:  use  ``--sql``  mode
              :param tag: an arbitrary "tag" that can be intercepted by custom ``env.py`` scripts via the :class:`.EnvironmentContext.get_tag_argument` method.

       upgrade
              Upgrade  to a later version. :param config: a :class:`.Config` instance. :param revision: string revision target or range for --sql mode :param sql: if True, use ``--sql`` mode :param tag: an
              arbitrary "tag" that can be intercepted by custom ``env.py`` scripts via the :meth:`.EnvironmentContext.get_tag_argument` method.

   optional arguments:
       -h, --help
              show this help message and exit

       -c CONFIG, --config CONFIG
              Alternate config file

       -n NAME, --name NAME
              Name of section in .ini file to use for Alembic config

       -x X   Additional arguments consumed by custom env.py scripts, e.g. -x setting1=somesetting -x setting2=somesetting

       --raiseerr
              Raise a full stack trace on error



alembic 1.0.7                                                                                   February 2019                                                                                      ALEMBIC(1)
