APPLYPATCH(1p)                                          User Contributed Perl Documentation                                         APPLYPATCH(1p)

NAME
       applypatch - apply 'makepatch' generated script to update a source tree

SYNOPSIS
       applypatch [ options ] patch-kit

DESCRIPTION
       Applypatch applies a patch kit as generated by the makepatch program. It performs the following actions:

       ·   First, it will extensively verify that the patch kit is complete and did not get corrupted during transfer.

       ·   Then it will apply some heuristics to verify that the directory in which the patch will be applied does indeed contain the expected
           sources.

           If a corruption or verification error is detected, applypatch exits without making changes.

       ·   If the kit is okay, and the directory seems to be the right one: it creates new files and directories as necessary.

       ·   Then it runs the patch program to apply the patch to the source files.

       ·   Upon completion, obsolete files, directories and .orig files are removed, file modes of new files are set, and the timestamps of all
           patched files are adjusted.

Applypatch arguments
       Applypatch takes one argument, the name of the patch kit as generated by makepatch. If no name is specified, the patch kit is read from
       standard input.

Applypatch options
       Options are matched case insensitive, and may be abbreviated to uniqueness.

       -directory dir
           The name of the source directory to be patched.

       -check
           Perform the checks on the patch kit and patch directory, but do not make any changes.

       -force
           Force continuation of the patch process even when corruption or verification errors are detected. This is very dangerous!

       -retain
           Do not remove patch backup files (with extension ".orig") upon completion.

       -patch cmd
           The patch command to be used. Default is ""patch -p0 -N"".  Additionally, a ""-s"" will be added unless option -verbose was specified.

       -verbose
           This option will cause applypatch and the patch program to emit verbose progress information.

       -quiet
           This option will cause applypatch and the patch program to emit no progress information, only error messages.

Environment variables
       SIMPLE_BACKUP_SUFFIX
           The suffix used by (some versions of?) patch to back up the originals of patched files. Upon completion, these files are removed by
           applypatch unless the option -retain was specified.  Default value if "".orig"".

SEE ALSO
       makepatch(1), diff(1), patch(1), perl(1), rm(1).

AUTHOR AND CREDITS
       This program is written by Johan Vromans <jvromans@squirrel.nl>.

       See section AUTHOR AND CREDITS of the makepatch program for an extensive list of people that helped one way or another in the makepatch /
       applypatch project.

COPYRIGHT AND DISCLAIMER
       This program is Copyright 1992,1999,2006 by Squirrel Consultancy. All rights reserved.

       This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of either: a) the GNU General Public License as
       published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 1, or (at your option) any later version, or b) the "Artistic License" which
       comes with Perl.

       This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
       MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See either the GNU General Public License or the Artistic License for more details.

perl v5.20.2                                                        2006-10-08                                                      APPLYPATCH(1p)
