apt-offline(8)                                                     USER COMMANDS                                                    apt-offline(8)

NAME
       apt-offline - Offline APT Package manager

SYNOPSIS
       apt-offline [ARGUMENTS] [OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION
       apt-offline  brings offline package management functionality to Debian based system.  It can be used to download packages and its dependen‐
       cies to be installed later on (or required to update) a disconnected machine.  Packages  can  be  downloaded  from  a  different  connected
       machine.

       It can also fetch bug reports for the packages that are downloaded.

       Unless the -h/-v or --help/--version options are given, one of the get, set or install commands must be provided.

   set  FILENAME  [-h]  [--install-packages  PKG...PKG_N] [--install-src-packages PKG...PKG_N] --src-build-dep [--release release_name] [--update]
       [--upgrade] [--upgrade-type upgrade]
       set generates a signature file with the data required to install on or update the disconnected machine.

       FILENAME {apt-offline.sig} is the signature file generated on the machine. This file will contain all the information necessary for apt.

       --install-packages [PKG...PKG_N]
                 Packages that need to be installed

       --install-src-packages [PKG...PKG_N]
                 Source packages that need to be installed

       --src-build-dep
                 Download Build Dependency packages for the source packages requested

       --release release_name
                 Release target to install packages from

       --update  Generate APT Database signature for an update. This is the equivalent of using apt-get update

       --upgrade Generate APT Database signature for package upgrade. This is the equivalent of using apt-get upgrade

       --upgrade-type {upgrade_type}
                 Type of upgrade you would like to perform. Default is upgrade .  Other valid types are dist-upgrade and dselect-upgrade

   get FILENAME [-h] [--socket-timeout ] [-d / --download-dir] [-s / --cache-dir] [--no-checksum] [-t /  --threads  ]  [--bundle]  [--bug-reports]
       [--proxy-host] [--proxy-port]
       get downloads APT data as per a signature file.

       FILENAME  {apt-offline.sig} is the signature file required for details about data to be downloaded. This file should have been generated by
       the above set command.

       -d, --download-dir DIR_NAME
                 Download data to the specified DIR_NAME folder. If no folder name is specified, data is downloaded to a  folder  in  the  TEMPDIR
                 path in the format apt-offline-download-$PID

       -s, --cache-dir DIR_NAME
                 Look  for  data  in  the  cache  before  downloading  it from the internet. If you are on a Debian box, you would want to specify
                 /var/cache/apt/archives here. If the data is not available in the cache, the downloaded data is also copied to the cache.

       --no-checksum
                 Enabling this option will bypass the checksum verification of each downloaded file thus losing integrity of the package. Usage of
                 this option is highly discouraged

       -t, --threads NUM_OF_THREADS
                 Number of threads to spawn for downloads. Default is 1. Using too many threads can overload the servers, hence it is advisable to
                 keep the number low

       --bundle FILENAME
                 Create an archive file FILENAME. The file is archived in zip format

       --bug-reports
                 Download bug reports for packages that are being downloaded. Currently only the Debian BTS is supported.

       --proxy-host
                 Specify the Proxy Host to be used.

       --proxy-port
                 Specify the Proxy port number to be used.

   install FILE/FOLDER [-h] [--skip-bug-reports ] [--install-src-path PATH] [--allow-unauthenticated]
       install installs APT data to the APT package database and updates it.

       FILE {archive_bundle_file} Install data from the archive (bundle) file.

       FOLDER {/folder/path} Install data from the folder path.

       Either FILE or FOLDER argument can be provided to the install command.

       --skip-bug-reports
                 Skip listing of downloaded bug reports, if any.

       --allow-unauthenticated
                 Don't verify GPG signatures for the data to be installed to APT. Usage of this option is highly discouraged.

       --install-src-path PATH
                 Path to filesystem where we want the source packages to be installed to. Default will be a folder in your TEMPDIR.

GLOBAL OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              Show help message

       --verbose
              Run in verbose mode

       --test-windows
              Developer only. Used for testing on windows

       -v, --version
              Display the version of the program

EXAMPLES
       NOTE: argument/option handling
              apt-offline relies on argparse for argument/option parsing. To explicitly instruct apt-offline about an argument, you  can  pass  it
              with the -- delimiter.

              Ex. apt-offline set --update --upgrade --install-packages wm2 -- foo.sig

              By  specifying  the  --  delimiter,  we  instruct  apt-offline that foo.sig is an argument to the apt-offline command and not to the
              --install-packages option.

              Otherwise, you could also use it positionally next to the set command

              Ex. apt-offline set foo.sig --update --upgrade --install-packages wm2

       apt-offline set FILENAME
              This command will generate a signature file FILENAME for APT Package Database.  To generate only the signature for updates, use  the
              --update  option.   To generate only the signature for package upgrades, use the --upgrade option.  Default behavior when no options
              are specified is to generate a signature for both the operations.

       apt-offline get FILENAME
              This command will fetch the data required for APT Package Database as per the signature file FILENAME generated by apt-offline  get.
              To download bug reports also use the --bug-reports option.  Currently supported bug tracker is Debian BTS only.  By default, if nei‐
              ther of -d or --bundle options are specified, apt-offline downloads data into a folder inside the TEMPDIR environment folder in  the
              format apt-offline-downloads-PID, where PID is the PID of the running apt-offline process. Example on a linux machine would be some‐
              thing like: /tmp/apt-offline-downloads-23242/

       apt-offline install FILE|FOLDER
              This command will sync the data downloaded by apt-offline get to the APT Package Database and update it.   Depending  on  where  the
              data was downloaded to or packed into, either the absolute FOLDER path or the archive FILE path can be specified.

       The following sequence of commands will keep a machine up to date, with the package lists one step ahead of the upgrade:
              apt-offline  set foo.sig --upgrade --update Requests the packages needed to upgrade the machine, based on the current package lists.
              Also, requests the new package lists for the next update.

              apt-offline get foo.sig -d FOLDER Downloads the packages for upgrading the machine, along with the package lists for the  next  time
              apt-offline set --upgrade is run.

              apt-offline install FOLDER/FILE Positions the packages for the upgrade, along with new the package lists.

              apt-get upgrade Upgrades to the state of the earlier package lists.

              NOTE: On a freshly installed box, that was installed without the network, the package database is null. In that case, you first need
              to run apt-offline with just the --update option to ensure you have a meaningful package database

AUTHOR
       apt-offline is written by Ritesh Raj Sarraf (rrs@researchut.com)

       If you wish to report a bug in apt-offline, please see http://apt-offline.alioth.debian.org or send an email to me at rrs@researchut.com

SEE ALSO
       apt-get(8), apt-cache(8), dpkg(8), aptitude(8),

DEDICATION
       This software is dedicated to the memory of my father Santosh Kumar Sarraf. We miss you a lot.

version 1.7                                                        January, 2015                                                    apt-offline(8)
