ARPSNMP(8)                                                    System Manager's Manual                                                   ARPSNMP(8)

NAME
       arpsnmp - keep track of ethernet/ip address pairings

SYNOPSIS
       arpsnmp [ -d ]
               [ -f datafile ]
               [ -s sendmail_path ]
               [ -m addr ]
               file [ ...  ]

DESCRIPTION
       Arpsnmp keeps track for ethernet/ip address pairings. It syslogs activity and reports certain changes via email.  Arpsnmp reads information
       from a file (usually generated by snmpwalk(8)).

       The -d flag is used enable debugging. This also inhibits mailing the reports.  Instead, they are sent to stderr.

       The -f flag is used to set the ethernet/ip address database filename.  The default is arp.dat.

       (Debian) The -s flag is used to specify the path to the sendmail program.  Any program that takes the option -odi and then text from  stdin
       can be substituted. This is useful for redirecting reports to log files instead of mail.

       (Debian)  The  -m  option is used to specify the e-mail address to which reports will be sent.  By default, reports are sent to root on the
       local machine.

       Note that an empty arp.dat file must be created before the first time you run arpsnmp.

REPORT MESSAGES
       (See the arpwatch(1) man page for details on the report messages generated by arpsnmp(1).)

FILES
       /var/lib/arpwatch - default directory
       arp.dat - ethernet/ip address database
       /usr/share/arpwatch/ethercodes.dat - vendor ethernet block list

SEE ALSO
       arpwatch(8), snmpwalk(8), arp(8)

AUTHORS
       Craig Leres of the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory Network Research Group, University of California, Berkeley, CA.

       The current version is available via anonymous ftp:

              ftp://ftp.ee.lbl.gov/arpwatch.tar.gz

BUGS
       Please send bug reports to arpwatch@ee.lbl.gov.

       Attempts are made to suppress DECnet flip flops but they aren't always successful.

4th Berkeley Distribution                                        17 September 2000                                                      ARPSNMP(8)
