AUTOPSY(1)                                                    General Commands Manual                                                   AUTOPSY(1)

NAME
       autopsy - Autopsy Forensic Browser

SYNOPSIS
       autopsy [-c] [-C] [-d evid_locker ] [-i device filesystem mnt ] [-p port ] [addr]

DESCRIPTION
       By  default, autopsy starts the Autopsy Forensic Browser server on port 9999 and and accepts connections from the localhost.  If -p port is
       given, then the server opens on that port and if addr is given, then connections are only accepted from that host.  When the -i argument is
       given, then autopsy goes into live analysis mode.

       The arguments are as follows:

       -c     Force the program to use cookies even for localhost.

       -C     Force the program to not use cookies even for remote hosts.

       -d evid_locker
              Directory  where cases and hosts are stored.  This overrides the LOCKDIR value in conf.pl.  The path must be a full path (i.e. start
              with /).

       -i device filesystem mnt
              Specify the information for the live analysis mode.  This can be specified as many times as needed.  The device field is for the raw
              file  system  device, the filesystem field is for the file system type, and the mnt field is for the mounting point of the file sys‐
              tem.

       -p port
              TCP port for server to listen on.

       addr   IP address or host name of where investigator is located.  If localhost is used, then 'localhost' must be used in the URL.   If  you
              use the actual hostname or IP, it will be rejected.

       When  started,  the  program  will  display  a URL to paste into an HTML browser.  The browser must support frames and forms.   The Autopsy
       Forensic Browser will allow an investigator to analyze images generated by dd(1) for evidence.  The program allows the images  to  be  ana‐
       lyzed  by  browsing  files, blocks, inodes, or by searching the blocks.  The program also generates Autopsy reports that include collection
       time, investigators name, and MD5 hash values.

VARIABLES
       The following variables can be set in conf.pl.

       USE_STIMEOUT
              When set to 1 (default is 0), the server will exit after STIMEOUT seconds of inactivity (default is 3600).  This setting  is  recom‐
              mended if cookies are not used.
       BASEDIR
              Directory  where cases and forensic images are located.  The images must have simple names with only letters, numbers, '_', '-', and
              '.'.  (See FILES).
       TSKDIR
              Directory where The Sleuth Kit binaries are located.
       NSRLDB
              Location of the NIST National Software Reference Library (NSRL).
       INSTALLDIR
              Directory where Autopsy was installed.
       GREP_EXE
              Location of grep(1) binary.
       STRINGS_EXE
              Location of strings(1) binary.

FILES
       Evidence Locker
              The Evidence Locker is where all cases and hosts will be saved to.  It is a directory that will have  a  directory  for  each  case.
              Each case directory will have a directory for each host.

       <CASE_DIR>/case.aut
              This  file  is the case configuration file for the case.  It contains the description of the case and default subdirectories for the
              hosts.

       <CASE_DIR>/investigators.txt
              This file contains the list of investigators that will use this case.  These are used for logging only, not authentication.

       <HOST_DIR>/host.aut
              This file is where the host configuration details are saved.  It is similar  to  the  'fsmorgue'  file  from  previous  versions  of
              Autopsy.  It has an entry for each file in the host and contains the host description.

       md5.txt
              Some  directories  will  have  this file in it.  It contains MD5 values for important files in the directory.  This makes it easy to
              validate the integrity of images.

EXAMPLE
       # autopsy -p 8888 10.1.34.19

SEE ALSO
       dd(1), fls(1), ffind(1), ifind(1), grep(1), icat(1) md5(1), strings(1),

REQUIREMENTS
       The Autopsy Forensic Browser requires The Sleuth Kit <www.sleuthkit.org/sleuthkit>

HISTORY
       autopsy first appeared in Autopsy v1.0.

LICENSE
       This software is distributed under the GNU Public License.

AUTHOR
       Brian Carrier <carrier at sleuthkit dot org>

       Send documentation updates to <doc-updates at sleuthkit dot org>

User Manuals                                                         MAR 2005                                                           AUTOPSY(1)
