DH_INSTALLDEB(1)                                                     Debhelper                                                    DH_INSTALLDEB(1)

NAME
       dh_installdeb - install files into the DEBIAN directory

SYNOPSIS
       dh_installdeb [debhelper options]

DESCRIPTION
       dh_installdeb is a debhelper program that is responsible for installing files into the DEBIAN directories in package build directories with
       the correct permissions.

FILES
       package.postinst
       package.preinst
       package.postrm
       package.prerm
           These maintainer scripts are installed into the DEBIAN directory.

           Inside the scripts, the token #DEBHELPER# is replaced with shell script snippets generated by other debhelper commands.

       package.triggers
       package.shlibs
           These control files are installed into the DEBIAN directory.

           Note that package.shlibs is only installed in compat level 9 and earlier.  In compat 10, please use dh_makeshlibs(1).

       package.conffiles
           This control file will be installed into the DEBIAN directory.

           In v3 compatibility mode and higher, all files in the etc/ directory in a package will automatically be flagged as conffiles by this
           program, so there is no need to list them manually here.

       package.maintscript
           Lines in this file correspond to dpkg-maintscript-helper(1) commands and parameters.  However, the "maint-script-parameters" should not
           be included as debhelper will add those automatically.

           Example:

               # Correct
               rm_conffile /etc/obsolete.conf 0.2~ foo
               # INCORRECT
               rm_conffile /etc/obsolete.conf 0.2~ foo -- "$@"

           In compat 10 or later, any shell metacharacters will be escaped, so arbitrary shell code cannot be inserted here.  For example, a line
           such as "mv_conffile /etc/oldconffile /etc/newconffile" will insert maintainer script snippets into all maintainer scripts sufficient
           to move that conffile.

           It was also the intention to escape shell metacharacters in previous compat levels.  However, it did not work properly and as such it
           was possible to embed arbitrary shell code in earlier compat levels.

           The dh_installdeb tool will do some basic validation of some of the commands listed in this file to catch common mistakes.  The
           validation is enabled as a warning since compat 10 and as a hard error in compat 12.

SEE ALSO
       debhelper(7)

       This program is a part of debhelper.

AUTHOR
       Joey Hess <joeyh@debian.org>

11.3.2ubuntu1ppa-xenial2                                            2018-07-25                                                    DH_INSTALLDEB(1)
