DH_MAKESHLIBS(1)                                                     Debhelper                                                    DH_MAKESHLIBS(1)

NAME
       dh_makeshlibs - automatically create shlibs file and call dpkg-gensymbols

SYNOPSIS
       dh_makeshlibs [debhelper options] [-mmajor] [-V[dependencies]] [-n] [-Xitem] [-- params]

DESCRIPTION
       dh_makeshlibs is a debhelper program that automatically scans for shared libraries, and generates a shlibs file for the libraries it finds.

       It will also ensure that ldconfig is invoked during install and removal when it finds shared libraries.  Since debhelper 9.20151004, this
       is done via a dpkg trigger.  In older versions of debhelper, dh_makeshlibs would generate a maintainer script for this purpose.

FILES
       debian/package.shlibs
           Installs this file, if present, into the package as DEBIAN/shlibs.  If omitted, debhelper will generate a shlibs file automatically if
           it detects any libraries.

           Note in compat levels 9 and earlier, this file was installed by dh_installdeb(1) rather than dh_makeshlibs.

       debian/package.symbols
       debian/package.symbols.arch
           These symbols files, if present, are passed to dpkg-gensymbols(1) to be processed and installed. Use the arch specific names if you
           need to provide different symbols files for different architectures.

OPTIONS
       -mmajor, --major=major
           Instead of trying to guess the major number of the library with objdump, use the major number specified after the -m parameter. This is
           much less useful than it used to be, back in the bad old days when this program looked at library filenames rather than using objdump.

       -V, -Vdependencies
       --version-info, --version-info=dependencies
           If a shlibs file is generated by this program, this option controls what version will be used in the dependency relation.

           In compat 12 and later, dh_makeshlibs defaults to -VUpstream-Version.  In compat 11 and earlier the default behaved like -VNone..

           The dh_makeshlibs tool can generate dependencies in three variants:

           -VUpstream-Version
               The dependency will be "packagename (>= packageversion)".  Note that Upstream-Version is case-sensitive and must be written exactly
               as shown here.

               This is a conservative setting that always ensures that other packages' shared library dependencies are at least as tight as they
               need to be (unless the library is prone to changing ABI without updating the upstream version number).

               The flip side is that packages might end up with dependencies that are too tight in some cases (note a symbols file can mitigate
               this issue).  This is often of minor temporary inconvenience and usually a lot better than the fall out caused by forgetting to
               bump the dependency information.

               This explicit form was added in debhelper/11.3.  In previous versions, a -V without any dependency information was used instead
               (and that form still works)

           -VNone
               The dependency will be "packagename".  Note that None is case-sensitive and must be written exactly as shown here.

               This form is generally unsafe with the only exception being if upstream does not extend the ABI in any way.  However, most
               upstreams improve their interfaces over time and packagers are recommended to use -VUpstream-Version (or one of the other forms of
               -Vdependencies).

               Alternatively, this may be sufficient if (and only if) the package uses symbol versioning (see dpkg-gensymbols(1)) and does not
               build any udeb packages.  Note that symbols are not supported for udeb packages, which solely relies on shlibs for dependency
               handling.

           -Vpackage-relation
               In this case, the value passed to -V will be used as a dependency relation.  The package-relation should generally be of the form
               "some-package-name (>= some-package-version)".  Remember to include the package name.

               Note that debhelper will use the value as it is with no sanity checking or modification.  In rare special cases, this is needed to
               generate a dependency on a different package than the one containing the library.

           When choosing a value for this option, please keep mind that if the package provides a symbols file, then that it generally preferred
           over the shlibs file for regular .deb packages.  See dpkg-shlibdeps(1) for more information on this topic.

       -n, --no-scripts
           Do not add the "ldconfig" trigger even if it seems like the package might need it.  The option is called --no-scripts for historical
           reasons as dh_makeshlibs would previously generate maintainer scripts that called ldconfig.

       -Xitem, --exclude=item
           Exclude files that contain item anywhere in their filename or directory from being treated as shared libraries.

       --add-udeb=udeb
           Create an additional line for udebs in the shlibs file and use udeb as the package name for udebs to depend on instead of the regular
           library package.

       -- params
           Pass params to dpkg-gensymbols(1).

EXAMPLES
       dh_makeshlibs -VNone
           Assuming this is a package named libfoobar1, generates a shlibs file that looks something like:
            libfoobar 1 libfoobar1

       dh_makeshlibs -VUpstream-Version
           Assuming the current version of the package is 1.1-3, generates a shlibs file that looks something like:
            libfoobar 1 libfoobar1 (>= 1.1)

       dh_makeshlibs -V 'libfoobar1 (>= 1.0)'
           Generates a shlibs file that looks something like:
             libfoobar 1 libfoobar1 (>= 1.0)

SEE ALSO
       debhelper(7)

       This program is a part of debhelper.

AUTHOR
       Joey Hess <joeyh@debian.org>

11.3.2ubuntu1ppa-xenial2                                            2018-07-25                                                    DH_MAKESHLIBS(1)
