DWWW-INDEX++(8)                  Debian                  DWWW-INDEX++(8)

NAME
       dwww-index++ - build index of registered Debian documentation.

SYNOPSIS
       dwww-index++ [-f] [-i] [-l] [-v] [-- swish_option [...]]

DESCRIPTION
       dwww-index++  is  part of the dwww package, which provides access
       to on-line documentation on a Debian system via WWW.

       dwww-index++ uses index++(1) program from swish++ package to gen‐
       erate   index  of  Debian  documentation  files  registered  with
       doc-base.

OPTIONS
       -f     Force generation of the full documentation index  even  if
              it is disabled in the configuration file.

       -i     Force  generation  of  the incremental documentation index
              even if it is disabled in the configuration file.

       -l     Print a list of files which would be indexed  on  standard
              output.  Can  be used together with -f or -i to show files
              which would be indexed by full or incremental indexing.

       -v     Be more verbose.

       --     Any option after -- is passed directly to index++(1).
              For example to see which files are indexed, use

                 dwww-index++ -- -v4

CONFIGURATION FILE ITEMS
       DWWW_INDEX_DOCUMENTATION
              If this variable is set to yes (default), then  the  docu‐
              mentation  index  is generated.  This setting can be over‐
              ridden with the -f option.

       DWWW_MERGE_MAN2HTML_INDEX
              If this variable is set to yes, then index  of  registered
              documentation files will be merged with index of man pages
              generated by the man2html package (if it is available).

       DWWW_INDEX_FULL_TIME_INTERVAL
              Specifies how often (in days) dwww-index++(8) will  gener‐
              ate full index of documentation.  The default value is 28.

       DWWW_INDEX_INCREMENTAL_TIME_INTERVAL
              Specifies  how  often  (in  days) dwww-index++(8) will run
              incremental indexing  of  new  documentation  files.   The
              default value is 7.

FILES
       /etc/dwww/dwww.conf
              Configuration file for dwww.

       /etc/cron.weekly/dwww
              A Bourne shell script which calls dwww-index++.

       /usr/share/dwww/swish++.conf
              Swish++ configuration file, used by dwww-index++.

       /var/cache/dwww/dwww.swish++.index
              Generated index file.

       /var/cache/dwww/index.files.db
              List of already indexed files.

       /var/cache/dwww/index.runinfo
              Timestamps of the latest full and incremental index gener‐
              ations.

SEE ALSO
       dwww(7),  dwww-find(8),   index++(1),   install-docs(8),   Debian
       doc-base                         Manual                        in
       /usr/share/doc/doc-base/doc-base.html/index.html.

AUTHOR
       Robert Luberda <robert@debian.org>.  See dwww(7)  for  copyrights
       and stuff.

dwww 1.11.1                February 15th, 2009           DWWW-INDEX++(8)
