FRM.MAILUTILS(1)                             User Commands                            FRM.MAILUTILS(1)

NAME
       frm.mailutils - display From: lines.

SYNOPSIS
       frm.mailutils [OPTION...] [URL ...]

DESCRIPTION
       GNU frm -- display From: lines.

       -d, --debug
              enable debugging output

       -f, --field=NAME
              header field to display

       -l, --[no-]to
              include the To: information

       -n, --[no-]number
              display message numbers

       -Q, --Quiet
              do not display headers

       -q, --query
              print a message if the mailbox contains some unread mail

       -S, --[no-]summary
              print a summary of messages

       -s, --status=STATUS
              select  messages  with the specific attribute: new, unread, old (same as unread) or read
              (or any unambiguous abbreviation of these)

       -t, --[no-]align
              tidy mode: align subject lines

              Global debugging settings

       --debug-level=LEVEL
              set Mailutils debugging level

       --[no-]debug-line-info show source info with debugging messages

              Configuration handling

       --config-file=FILE
              load this configuration file; implies --no-config

       --config-lint
              check configuration file syntax and exit

       --config-verbose
              verbosely log parsing of the configuration files

       --no-config
              do not load site and user configuration files

       --no-site-config
              do not load site-wide configuration file

       --no-user-config
              do not load user configuration file

       --set=PARAM=VALUE
              set configuration parameter

              Informational options

       --config-help
              show configuration file summary

       --show-config-options
              show compilation options

       -?, --help
              give this help list

       --usage
              give a short usage message

       -V, --version
              print program version

       Mandatory or optional arguments to long options are also mandatory or optional for  any  corre‐
       sponding short options.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <bug-mailutils@gnu.org>.
       GNU Mailutils home page: <http://mailutils.org>
       General help using GNU software: <http://www.gnu.org/gethelp/>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright  ©  2007-2017  Free  Software  Foundation, inc.  License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or
       later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>
       This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is  NO  WARRANTY,  to
       the extent permitted by law.

SEE ALSO
       The  complete  GNU mailutils documentation is maintained as a Texinfo manual. If the mailutils-
       doc package is installed, the command

              info mailutils

       should give you access to the complete manual.
       You can also find this manual online in the GNU mailutils webpage:
       https://www.gnu.org/software/mailutils/manual/index.html.
       Please note this manpage was automatically generated by the Debian mailutils packagers. Do  not
       file bugs for its content to the GNU Mailutils upstream authors.

FSF                                          November 2017                            FRM.MAILUTILS(1)
