FROM.MAILUTILS(1)                            User Commands                           FROM.MAILUTILS(1)

NAME
       from.mailutils - display from and subject.

SYNOPSIS
       from.mailutils [OPTION...] [OPTIONS] [USER]

DESCRIPTION
       GNU from -- display from and subject.

       -c, --[no-]count
              just print a count of messages and exit

       -d, --debug
              enable debugging output

       -f, --file=FILE
              read mail from FILE

       -s, --sender=ADDRESS
              print only mail from addresses containing the supplied string

              Global debugging settings

       --debug-level=LEVEL
              set Mailutils debugging level

       --[no-]debug-line-info show source info with debugging messages

              Configuration handling

       --config-file=FILE
              load this configuration file; implies --no-config

       --config-lint
              check configuration file syntax and exit

       --config-verbose
              verbosely log parsing of the configuration files

       --no-config
              do not load site and user configuration files

       --no-site-config
              do not load site-wide configuration file

       --no-user-config
              do not load user configuration file

       --set=PARAM=VALUE
              set configuration parameter

              Informational options

       --config-help
              show configuration file summary

       --show-config-options
              show compilation options

       -?, --help
              give this help list

       --usage
              give a short usage message

       -V, --version
              print program version

       Mandatory  or  optional arguments to long options are also mandatory or optional for any corre‐
       sponding short options.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <bug-mailutils@gnu.org>.
       GNU Mailutils home page: <http://mailutils.org>
       General help using GNU software: <http://www.gnu.org/gethelp/>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2007-2017 Free Software Foundation, inc.  License GPLv3+:  GNU  GPL  version  3  or
       later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>
       This  is  free  software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is NO WARRANTY, to
       the extent permitted by law.

SEE ALSO
       The complete GNU mailutils documentation is maintained as a Texinfo manual. If  the  mailutils-
       doc package is installed, the command

              info mailutils

       should give you access to the complete manual.
       You can also find this manual online in the GNU mailutils webpage:
       https://www.gnu.org/software/mailutils/manual/index.html.
       Please  note this manpage was automatically generated by the Debian mailutils packagers. Do not
       file bugs for its content to the GNU Mailutils upstream authors.

FSF                                          November 2017                           FROM.MAILUTILS(1)
