glilypond(1)                                                  General Commands Manual                                                 glilypond(1)

NAME
       glilypond — integrate lilypond parts into groff

SYNOPSIS
       glilypond [ options] [-] [--] [ filespec ....]

DESCRIPTION
       glilypond transforms sheet music written in the lilypond language into the groff(7) language using the .PSPIC request, such that groff(1)
       can transform it into a format that can be displayed directly.

       Files in groff language and standard input can be provided as arguments.

OPTION OVERVIEW
   Breaking Options
       -?|-h|--help|--usage
              Print help or usage information, then leave the program.

       --version
              Print version information.

       -l|--license
              Print license information.

   Options for building EPS Files
       [--ly2eps]
              Here the lilypond program creates eps files directly.  This is the default.

       [--pdf2eps]
              The program glilypond generates a pdf file using lilypond.  Then the eps file is generated by pdf2ps and ps2epsR.

   Directories and Files
       -e|--eps_dir directory_name
              Normally all EPS files are sent to the temporary directory.  With this option, you can generate your own directory, in which all
              useful EPS files are send.  So at last, the temporary directory can be removed.

       -p|--prefix begin_of_name
              Normally all temporary files get names that start with the ly....  prefix.  With this option, you can freely change this prefix.

       -k|--keep_all
              Normally all temporary files without the eps files are deleted.  With this option, all generated files either by the lilypond pro‐
              gram or other format transposers are kept.

       -t|--temp_dir dir
              With this option, you call a directory that is the base for the temporary directory.  This directory name is used as is without any
              extensions.  If this directory does not exist it is be created.  The temporary directory is created by Perl's security operations
              directly under this directory.  In this temporary directory, the temporary files are stored.

   Output
       -o|--output file_name
              Normally all groff output of this program is sent to STDOUTR.  With this option, that can be changed, such that the output is stored
              into a file named in the option argument file_name.

       -v|-V|--verbose
              A lot more of information is sent to STDERR.

   Short Option Collections
       The argument handling of options

       Short options are arguments that start with a single dash -.  Such an argument can consist of arbitrary many options without option argu‐
       ment, composed as a collection of option characters following the single dash.

       Such a collection can be terminated by an option character that expects an option argument.  If this option character is not the last char‐
       acter of the argument, the following final part of the argument is the option argument.  If it is the last character of the argument, the
       next argument is taken as the option argument.

       This is the standard for POSIX and GNU option management.

       For example,

       -kVe some_dir
              is a collection of the short options -k and -V without option argument, followed by the short option -e with option argument that is
              the following part of the argument some_dir.  So this argument could also be written as several arguments -k -V -e some_dir.

   Handling of Long Options
       Arguments that start with a double dash -- are so-called long options R .  Each double dash argument can only have a single long option.

       Long options have or have not an option argument.  An option argument can be the next argument or can be appended with an equal sign = to
       the same argument as the long option.

       --help is a long option without an option argument.

       --eps_dir some_dir
       --eps_dir=some_dir
              is the long option --eps_dir with the option argument some_dir.

       Moreover the program allows abbreviations of long options, as much as possible.

       The long option --keep_all can be abbreviated from --keep_al up to --k because the program does not have another long option whose name
       starts with the character k.

       On the other hand, the option --version cannot be abbreviated further than --vers because there is also the long option --verbose that can
       be abbreviated up to --verb.

       An option argument can also be appended to an abbreviation.  So is --e=some_dir the same as --eps_dir some_dir.

       Moreover the program allows an arbitrary usage of upper and lower case in the option name.  This is Perl style.

       For example, the long option --keep_all can as well be written as --Keep_All or even as an abbreviation like --KeE.

FILESPEC ARGUMENTS
       An argument that is not an option or an option argument is called a filespec argument.

       Without any filespec argument, standard input is read.

       Each filespec argument must either be the name of a readable file or a dash - for standard input.  Each input must be written in the roff
       or groff language and can include lilypond parts.

       Normally arguments starting with a dash - are interpreted as an option.  But if you use an argument that consists only of a doubled dash --
       R , all following arguments are taken as filespec argument, even if such an argument starts with a dash.  This is handled according to the
       GNU standard.

THE LILYPOND PARTS IN ROFF INPUT
   Integrated Lilypond Codes
       A lilypond part within a structure written in the groff language is the whole part between the marks
              .lilypond start
       and
              .lilypond end

       A groff input can have several of these lilypond parts.

       When processing such a lilypond part between .lilypond start and .lilypond end we say that the glilypond program is in lilypond mode.

       These lilypond parts are sent into temporary lilypond files with the file name extension .ly.  These files are transformed later on into
       EPS files.

   Inclusion of ly-Files
       An additional command line for file inclusion of lilypond files is given by
       .lilypond include file_name
       in groff input.  For each such include command, one file of lilypond code can be included into the groff code.  Arbitrarily many of these
       commands can be included in the groff input.

       These include commands can only be used outside the lilypond parts.  Within the lilypond mode, this inclusion is not possible.  So .lily‐
       pond include may not be used in lilypond mode, i.e. between .lilypond start and .lilypond end.  These included ly-files are also trans‐
       formed into EPS files.

GENERATED FILES
       By the transformation process of lilypond parts into EPS files, there are many files generated.  By default, these files are regarded as
       temporary files and as such stored in a temporary directory.

       This process can be changed by command line options.

   Command Line Options for Directories
       The temporary directory for this program is either created automatically or can be named by the option -t|--temp_dir dir.

       Moreover, the EPS files that are later on referred by .PSPIC command in the final groff output can be stored in a different directory that
       can be set by the command line option -e|--eps_dir directory_name.  With this option, the temporary directory can be removed completely at
       the end of the program.

       The beginning of the names of the temporary files can be set by the command line option [-p |] begin_of_name.

       All of the temporary files except the EPS files are deleted finally.  This can be changed by setting the command line option [-k |] With
       this, all temporary files and directories are kept, not deleted.

       These EPS files are stored in a temporary or EPS directory.  But they cannot be deleted by the transformation process because they are
       needed for the display which can take a long time.

TRANSFORMATION PROCESSES FOR GENERATING EPS FILES
   Mode ly2eps
       This mode is the default.  It can also be chosen by the option --ly2eps.

       In this mode, the .ly files are transformed by the lilypond program into many files of different formats, including eps files, using
              $ lilypond --ps -dbackend=eps -dgs-load-fonts --output=file-name
       for each .ly file.  The output file-name must be provided without an extension, its directory is temporary.

       There are many EPS files created.  One having the complete transformed ly file, named file-name.eps.

       Moreover there are EPS files for each page, named file-name-digit.eps.

       The last step to be done is replacing all lilypond parts by the collection of the corresponding EPS page files.  This is done by groff com‐
       mands
       .PSPIC file-name-digit.eps

   Mode pdf2eps
       This mode can be chosen by the option --pdf2eps.

       In this mode, the .ly files are transformed by the lilypond(1) program into pdf files, using
              lilypond --pdf --output=file-name
       for each .ly file.  The file-name must be provided without the extension .pdf.  By this process, a file file-name.pdf is generated.

       The next step is to transform these PDF files into a PS file.  This is done by the pdf2ps(1) program using
              $  pdf2ps file-name .pdf file-name .ps
       The next step creates an EPS file from the PS file.  This is done by the ps2eps(1) program using
              $ ps2eps file-name.ps

       By that, a file file-name.eps is created for each lilypond part in the groff file or standard input.

       The last step to be done is replacing all lilypond parts by the groff command
              .PSPIC file-name.eps

THE GENERATED NEW ROFF STRUCTURE
       The new groff(7) structure generated by glilypond is either

       1)     sent to standard output and can there be saved into a file or piped into groff(1) or groffer(1) or

       2)     stored into a file by given the option -o  | --output file_name

SEE ALSO
       groff(1)
              the usage of the groff program and pointers to the documentation and availability of the groff system.  The main source of informa‐
              tion for the groff system is the groff info(1) file.

       groff(7)
              documents the groff language.

       groff_tmac(5)
              contains documentation of the .PSPIC request.

       lilypond(1)
              The documentation of the lilypond program.  The main source of information for the lilypond language is the lilypond info(1) file.

       pdf2ps(1)
              transform a PDF file into a Postscript format.

       ps2eps(1)
              transform a PS file into an EPS format.

COPYING
       Copyright © 2013-2014 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

       This file is part of glilypond, which is part of GNU groff, a free software project.

       You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 (GPL2) as published by the Free Soft‐
       ware Foundation.

       The license text is available in the internet at ⟨http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html⟩.

AUTHORS
       This document was written by Bernd Warken ⟨groff-bernd.warken-72@web.de⟩.

Groff Version 1.22.3                                              28 January 2016                                                     glilypond(1)
