GPDASM(1)                                                       Linux user's manual                                                      GPDASM(1)

NAME
       gpdasm - GNU PIC disassembler

SYNOPSIS
       gpdasm [options] file

WARNING
       The  information  in  this man page is an extract from the full documentation of gputils and is limited to the meaning of the options.  For
       complete and current documentation, refer to "gputils.ps" located in the gputils docs directory.

DESCRIPTION
       gpdasm is an disassembler for Microchip (TM) PIC (TM) micro-controllers.  gpdasm is part of gputils.   Check  the  gputils(1)  manpage  for
       details on other GNU PIC utilities.

OPTIONS
       -c, --mnemonics
              Decode the special mnemonics.

       -h, --help
              Show this usage message and exit.

       -i, --hex-info
              Report extra information about the input hex file. This information includes file size and hex format.

       -k FILE, --label-list FILE
              A file which lists the names and addresses of the labels in the disassembled program code. (With the -n, -o and -s options.)

       -l, --list-chips
              List the supported processors.

       -m, --dump
              Display the contents of instruction memory.

       -p PROC, --processor PROC
              Select the processor.

       -s, --short
              Output the short format. This format can be reassembled by gpasm.  (See also the -k, -n and -o options.)

       -v, --version
              Show the version information and exit.

       -y, --extended
              Enable 18xx extended mode.

       --strict
              Disassemble only opcodes generated by gpasm in case of instructions with several opcodes.

SEE ALSO
       gputils(1)

AUTHOR
       Craig Franklin <craigfranklin@users.sourceforge.net>

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 Craig Franklin

       This  program  is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
       the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

       This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY  WARRANTY;  without  even  the  implied  warranty  of  MER‐
       CHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

       You  should  have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
       Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

gputils-1.4.0                                                       2012-03-04                                                           GPDASM(1)
