HTMLLinker(1)                                                  GNUstep System Manual                                                 HTMLLinker(1)

NAME
       HTMLLinker - tool to fix up href references in HTML files

SYNOPSIS
       HTMLLinker [options] input files [ -l relocation file ] [ -d destination file ]

DESCRIPTION
       HTMLLinker  is  a  tool  to  fix href references in HTML files, typically API reference manuals generated by extracting the docstrings from
       source code by tools such as autogsdoc(1).

       HTMLLinker accepts the following options (multiple input files, -l and -d options are allowed):

OPTIONS
       --help Prints a short list of available options.

       --version
              Displays version information.

       --verbose
              Prints additional information while processing.

       -Warn [YES|NO]
              Print additional information about unresolved links.

       -LinksMarker [xxx]
              Only fix links with attribute rel=xxx

       -FixupAllLinks YES
              Attempt to fix all links (not only those that are marked with -LinksMarker.

       -PathMappingsFile file
              Read the relocation mappings from file (in dictionary format).

       -PathMappings '{"path"="another_path";}'
              Use the specified path mappings.

       -BuildRelocationFileForDir dir
              Build a relocation file for the directory dir and save it into dir/table.htmlink.  This option is special  and  prevents  any  other
              processing by the linker.

SEE ALSO
       autogsdoc(1), GNUstep(7).

AUTHORS
       HTMLLinker was written by Nicola Pero <nicola@brainstorm.co.uk>.

       This manual page was added by Yavor Doganov <yavor@gnu.org>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2009 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

       Copying  and  distribution  of  this file, with or without modification, are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
       notice and this notice are preserved.

GNUstep                                                           August 16, 2009                                                    HTMLLinker(1)
