INTLTOOL-MERGE(8)                                             System Manager's Manual                                            INTLTOOL-MERGE(8)

NAME
       intltool-merge - merge translated strings into various types of file

SYNOPSIS
       intltool-merge [option]... PO_DIRECTORY FILENAME OUTPUT_FILE

DESCRIPTION
       Merge  translated strings in po files in PO_DIRECTORY with the original application file FILENAME, and output the file OUTPUT_FILE contain‐
       ing both original and localized strings.

       If FILENAME is an XML file, OUTPUT_FILE will contain repeated xml nodes, where each  node  contains  one  of  the  localized  strings  with
       "xml:lang" attribute.

OPTIONS
   Mode of operation
       -b
       --ba-style
           Merge files in bonobo-activation style, which is used for bonobo servers.

       -d
       --desktop-style
           Merge files in desktop style, which is similar to the Windows .ini file format.

       -k
       --keys-style
           Merge files in keys style, which is used for metadata.

       -o
       --oaf-style
           (OBSOLETE) Same as -b/--ba-style.

       -r
       --rfc822deb-style
           Merge files in RFC 822 style, which is usually used in Debian configuration files.

       --quoted-style
           Merge files in quoted string style, which just translates any strings within "".

       -x
       --xml-style
           Merge files in standard XML style, both as attributes and as raw pcdata.

   Other options
       -u
       --utf8
           Convert all strings to UTF-8 before merging.

       -p
       --pass-through
           Use strings as is in .po files without conversion (STRONGLY unrecommended with -x).

       -c
       --cache
           (TBD)

       -q
       --quiet
           Be quiet while running.

       -v
       --version
           Show version information.

       -h
       --help
           Show usage and basic help information.

FILES
       po/.intltool-merge-cache
              Cache file generated by intltool-merge, that contains all strings in all po files separated by \01.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to http://bugs.launchpad.net/intltool

AUTHOR
       Darin Adler <darin@bentspoon.com>
       Kenneth Christiansen <kenneth@gnu.org>
       Maciej Stachowiak <mjs@eazel.com>

SEE ALSO
       iconv(1), intltoolize(8), intltool-prepare(8), intltool-extract(8), intltool-update(8)

intltool                                                            2003-08-02                                                   INTLTOOL-MERGE(8)
