INTLTOOL-PREPARE(8)                                           System Manager's Manual                                          INTLTOOL-PREPARE(8)

NAME
       intltool-prepare - Prepare software to make use of intltool

SYNOPSIS
       intltool-prepare [option] [KEYWORD]...

DESCRIPTION
       For  software  packages  that  include  some specific type of translatable files (such as .desktop and .soundlist), before they make use of
       intltool, translators have to dig through them one by one, and add their localization into each file. This process is  error  prone,  since
       translators  may  include  typing  errors, or add their localization in wrong encoding. Besides, translators may not alwas know other files
       (beside .po files) are translatable.

       intltool avoids all the problems above by extracting strings inside those translatable files into po template (.pot) file. All  translators
       need to care about is just translating po files. Afterwards, intltool-merge(8) will merge localized strings into those files.

       Before  your  software  becomes intltool-aware, a few issues have to be sorted out, and intltool-prepare tries to take care of all of them.
       intltool-prepare will:

       · Extract all localized strings in .desktop style files (including ".desktop", ".soundlist", ".keys" and ".directory")  into  corresponding
         po files.

       · Convert the translatable files into templates that don't contain any localization.

       · Add the list of template files above into POTFILES.in.

       · Add the list of old translatable files into .cvsignore (since they will be generated by intltool later).

       · Add the rules for generating these files into Makefile.am.

       NOTE: You must change working directory to the top level source directory before running intltool-prepare.

OPTIONS
       KEYWORD is a list of additional keywords beside "Name", "Comment" and "description". intltool-prepare will recognize any line starting with
       those KEYWORD and extract localized strings after equal sign ("=").

       -x
       --verbose
           Be verbose to give user additional feedback.

       -v
       --version
           Show version information.
       -h
       --help
           Show usage and basic help information.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to http://bugs.launchpad.net/intltool

AUTHOR
       Darin Adler <darin@bentspoon.com>
       Kenneth Christiansen <kenneth@gnu.org>
       Maciej Stachowiak <mjs@eazel.com>

SEE ALSO
       intltoolize(8), intltool-update(8), intltool-extract(8), intltool-merge(8)

intltool                                                            2003-08-02                                                 INTLTOOL-PREPARE(8)
