IOSTAT(1)                                                       Linux User's Manual                                                      IOSTAT(1)

NAME
       iostat - Report Central Processing Unit (CPU) statistics and input/output statistics for devices and partitions.

SYNOPSIS
       iostat  [  -c  ]  [ -d ] [ -h ] [ -k | -m ] [ -N ] [ -t ] [ -V ] [ -x ] [ -y ] [ -z ] [ -j { ID | LABEL | PATH | UUID | ... } ] [ [ -H ] -g
       group_name ] [ -p [ device [,...] | ALL ] ] [ device [...] | ALL ] [ interval [ count ] ]

DESCRIPTION
       The iostat command is used for monitoring system input/output device loading by observing the time the devices are active  in  relation  to
       their  average  transfer  rates. The iostat command generates reports that can be used to change system configuration to better balance the
       input/output load between physical disks.

       The first report generated by the iostat command provides statistics concerning the time since the system was booted, unless the -y  option
       is used (in this case, this first report is omitted).  Each subsequent report covers the time since the previous report. All statistics are
       reported each time the iostat command is run. The report consists of a CPU header row followed by a row of CPU statistics. On  multiproces‐
       sor  systems,  CPU  statistics  are calculated system-wide as averages among all processors. A device header row is displayed followed by a
       line of statistics for each device that is configured.

       The interval parameter specifies the amount of time in seconds between each report. The count parameter can  be  specified  in  conjunction
       with the interval parameter. If the count parameter is specified, the value of count determines the number of reports generated at interval
       seconds apart. If the interval parameter is specified without the count parameter, the iostat command generates reports continuously.

REPORTS
       The iostat command generates two types of reports, the CPU Utilization report and the Device Utilization report.

       CPU Utilization Report
              The first report generated by the iostat command is the CPU Utilization Report. For  multiprocessor  systems,  the  CPU  values  are
              global averages among all processors.  The report has the following format:

              %user
                     Show the percentage of CPU utilization that occurred while executing at the user level (application).

              %nice
                     Show the percentage of CPU utilization that occurred while executing at the user level with nice priority.

              %system
                     Show the percentage of CPU utilization that occurred while executing at the system level (kernel).

              %iowait
                     Show the percentage of time that the CPU or CPUs were idle during which the system had an outstanding disk I/O request.

              %steal
                     Show  the  percentage of time spent in involuntary wait by the virtual CPU or CPUs while the hypervisor was servicing another
                     virtual processor.

              %idle
                     Show the percentage of time that the CPU or CPUs were idle and the system did not have an outstanding disk I/O request.

       Device Utilization Report
              The second report generated by the iostat command is the Device Utilization Report. The device report provides statistics on  a  per
              physical device or partition basis. Block devices and partitions for which statistics are to be displayed may be entered on the com‐
              mand line.  If no device nor partition is entered, then statistics are displayed for every device used by the system, and  providing
              that  the  kernel  maintains  statistics for it.  If the ALL keyword is given on the command line, then statistics are displayed for
              every device defined by the system, including those that have never been used.  Transfer rates are shown in 1K  blocks  by  default,
              unless  the  environment variable POSIXLY_CORRECT is set, in which case 512-byte blocks are used.  The report may show the following
              fields, depending on the flags used:

              Device:
                     This column gives the device (or partition) name as listed in the /dev directory.

              tps
                     Indicate the number of transfers per second that were issued to the device. A transfer is an I/O request to the device.  Mul‐
                     tiple logical requests can be combined into a single I/O request to the device. A transfer is of indeterminate size.

              Blk_read/s (kB_read/s, MB_read/s)
                     Indicate  the  amount  of data read from the device expressed in a number of blocks (kilobytes, megabytes) per second. Blocks
                     are equivalent to sectors and therefore have a size of 512 bytes.

              Blk_wrtn/s (kB_wrtn/s, MB_wrtn/s)
                     Indicate the amount of data written to the device expressed in a number of blocks (kilobytes, megabytes) per second.

              Blk_read (kB_read, MB_read)
                     The total number of blocks (kilobytes, megabytes) read.

              Blk_wrtn (kB_wrtn, MB_wrtn)
                     The total number of blocks (kilobytes, megabytes) written.

              rrqm/s
                     The number of read requests merged per second that were queued to the device.

              wrqm/s
                     The number of write requests merged per second that were queued to the device.

              r/s
                     The number (after merges) of read requests completed per second for the device.

              w/s
                     The number (after merges) of write requests completed per second for the device.

              rsec/s (rkB/s, rMB/s)
                     The number of sectors (kilobytes, megabytes) read from the device per second.

              wsec/s (wkB/s, wMB/s)
                     The number of sectors (kilobytes, megabytes) written to the device per second.

              avgrq-sz
                     The average size (in sectors) of the requests that were issued to the device.

              avgqu-sz
                     The average queue length of the requests that were issued to the device.

              await
                     The average time (in milliseconds) for I/O requests issued to the device to be served. This includes the time  spent  by  the
                     requests in queue and the time spent servicing them.

              r_await
                     The  average  time (in milliseconds) for read requests issued to the device to be served. This includes the time spent by the
                     requests in queue and the time spent servicing them.

              w_await
                     The average time (in milliseconds) for write requests issued to the device to be served. This includes the time spent by  the
                     requests in queue and the time spent servicing them.

              svctm
                     The  average service time (in milliseconds) for I/O requests that were issued to the device. Warning! Do not trust this field
                     any more.  This field will be removed in a future sysstat version.

              %util
                     Percentage of elapsed time during which I/O requests were issued to the device (bandwidth utilization for the device). Device
                     saturation  occurs  when this value is close to 100% for devices serving requests serially.  But for devices serving requests
                     in parallel, such as RAID arrays and modern SSDs, this number does not reflect their performance limits.

OPTIONS
       -c     Display the CPU utilization report.

       -d     Display the device utilization report.

       -g group_name { device [...] | ALL }
              Display statistics for a group of devices.  The iostat command reports statistics for each individual device in the list then a line
              of  global  statistics  for the group displayed as group_name and made up of all the devices in the list. The ALL keyword means that
              all the block devices defined by the system shall be included in the group.

       -h     Make the Device Utilization Report easier to read by a human.

       -j { ID | LABEL | PATH | UUID | ... } [ device [...] | ALL ]
              Display persistent device names. Options ID, LABEL, etc. specify the type of the persistent name. These  options  are  not  limited,
              only  prerequisite  is  that  directory with required persistent names is present in /dev/disk.  Optionally, multiple devices can be
              specified in the chosen persistent name type.  Because persistent device names are usually long, option

       -H     This option must be used with option -g and indicates that only global statistics for the group are to be displayed, and not statis‐
              tics for individual devices in the group.  -h is enabled implicitly with this option.

       -k     Display statistics in kilobytes per second.

       -m     Display statistics in megabytes per second.

       -N     Display the registered device mapper names for any device mapper devices.  Useful for viewing LVM2 statistics.

       -p [ { device [,...] | ALL } ]
              The  -p  option  displays  statistics  for  block devices and all their partitions that are used by the system.  If a device name is
              entered on the command line, then statistics for it and all its partitions are displayed. Last, the ALL keyword indicates that  sta‐
              tistics  have  to  be displayed for all the block devices and partitions defined by the system, including those that have never been
              used. If option -j is defined before this option, devices entered on the command line can be specified with  the  chosen  persistent
              name type.

       -t     Print  the  time  for  each report displayed. The timestamp format may depend on the value of the S_TIME_FORMAT environment variable
              (see below).

       -V     Print version number then exit.

       -x     Display extended statistics.

       -y     Omit first report with statistics since system boot, if displaying multiple records at given interval.

       -z     Tell iostat to omit output for any devices for which there was no activity during the sample period.

ENVIRONMENT
       The iostat command takes into account the following environment variables:

       POSIXLY_CORRECT
              When this variable is set, transfer rates are shown in 512-byte blocks instead of the default 1K blocks.

       S_COLORS
              When this variable is set, display statistics in color on the terminal.  Possible values for this variable are never, always or auto
              (the latter is the default).

              Please  note  that the color (being red, yellow, or some other color) used to display a value is not indicative of any kind of issue
              simply because of the color. It only indicates different ranges of values.

       S_COLORS_SGR
              Specify the colors and other attributes used to display statistics on the terminal.  Its value is a colon-separated list of capabil‐
              ities that defaults to H=31;1:I=32;22:M=34;1:N=33;1:Z=33;22.  Supported capabilities are:

              H=     SGR (Select Graphic Rendition) substring for percentage values greater than or equal to 75%.

              I=     SGR substring for device names.

              M=     SGR substring for percentage values in the range from 50% to 75%.

              N=     SGR substring for non-zero statistics values.

              Z=     SGR substring for zero values.

       S_TIME_FORMAT
              If  this  variable  exists and its value is ISO then the current locale will be ignored when printing the date in the report header.
              The iostat command will use the ISO 8601 format (YYYY-MM-DD) instead.  The timestamp displayed with option -t will also be compliant
              with ISO 8601 format.

EXAMPLES
       iostat
              Display a single history since boot report for all CPU and Devices.

       iostat -d 2
              Display a continuous device report at two second intervals.

       iostat -d 2 6
              Display six reports at two second intervals for all devices.

       iostat -x sda sdb 2 6
              Display six reports of extended statistics at two second intervals for devices sda and sdb.

       iostat -p sda 2 6
              Display six reports at two second intervals for device sda and all its partitions (sda1, etc.)

BUGS
       /proc filesystem must be mounted for iostat to work.

       Kernels older than 2.6.x are no longer supported.

       The  average  service  time (svctm field) value is meaningless, as I/O statistics are now calculated at block level, and we don't know when
       the disk driver starts to process a request. For this reason, this field will be removed in a future sysstat version.

FILES
       /proc/stat contains system statistics.

       /proc/uptime contains system uptime.

       /proc/diskstats contains disks statistics.

       /sys contains statistics for block devices.

       /proc/self/mountstats contains statistics for network filesystems.

       /dev/disk contains persistent device names.

AUTHOR
       Sebastien Godard (sysstat <at> orange.fr)

SEE ALSO
       sar(1), pidstat(1), mpstat(1), vmstat(8), tapestat(1), nfsiostat(1), cifsiostat(1)

       http://pagesperso-orange.fr/sebastien.godard/

Linux                                                              OCTOBER 2015                                                          IOSTAT(1)
