ipa-replica-install(1)                                                                         IPA Manual Pages                                                                        ipa-replica-install(1)



NAME
       ipa-replica-install - Create an IPA replica

SYNOPSIS
   DOMAIN LEVEL 0
       ipa-replica-install [OPTION]... [replica_file]

   DOMAIN LEVEL 1
       ipa-replica-install [OPTION]...

DESCRIPTION
       Configures  a new IPA server that is a replica of the server. Once it has been created it is an exact copy of the original IPA server and is an equal master. Changes made to any master are automati‐
       cally replicated to other masters.

       To create a replica in a domain at domain level 0, you need to provide an replica file. The replica_file is created using the ipa-replica-prepare utility.

       To create a replica in a domain at domain level 1, you don't have to provide a replica file, the machine only needs to be enrolled in the IPA domain first. This process of  turning  the  IPA  client
       into a replica is also referred to as replica promotion.

       If you're starting with an existing IPA client, simply run ipa-replica-install to have it promoted into a replica.

       To  promote  a  blank  machine  into a replica, you have two options, you can either run ipa-client-install in a separate step, or pass the enrollment related options to the ipa-replica-install (see
       DOMAIN LEVEL 1 CLIENT ENROLLMENT OPTIONS). In the latter case, ipa-replica-install will join the machine to the IPA realm automatically and will proceed with the promotion step.

       If the installation fails you may need to run ipa-server-install --uninstall and ipa-client-install before running ipa-replica-install again.

       The installation will fail if the host you are installing the replica on exists as a host in IPA or an existing replication agreement exists (for example, from a previously failed installation).

       A replica should only be installed on the same or higher version of IPA on the remote system.

OPTIONS
   DOMAIN LEVEL 1 OPTIONS
       -P, --principal
              The user principal which will be used to promote the client to the replica and enroll the client itself, if necessary.

       -w, --admin-password
              The Kerberos password for the given principal.


   DOMAIN LEVEL 1 CLIENT ENROLLMENT OPTIONS
       To install client and promote it to replica using a host keytab or One Time Password, the host needs to be a member of ipaservers group. This requires to create a host entry and add it to  the  host
       group prior replica installation.

       --server, --domain, --realm  options are autodiscovered via DNS records by default. See manual page ipa-client-install(1) for further details about these options.


       -p PASSWORD, --password=PASSWORD
              One Time Password for joining a machine to the IPA realm.

       -k, --keytab
              Path to host keytab.

       --server
              The fully qualified domain name of the IPA server to enroll to.

       -n, --domain=DOMAIN
              The primary DNS domain of an existing IPA deployment, e.g. example.com.  This DNS domain should contain the SRV records generated by the IPA server installer.

       -r, --realm=REALM_NAME
              The Kerberos realm of an existing IPA deployment.

       --hostname
              The hostname of this machine (FQDN). If specified, the hostname will be set and the system configuration will be updated to persist over reboot.

       --force-join
              Join the host even if it is already enrolled.


   DOMAIN LEVEL 0 OPTIONS
       -p PASSWORD, --password=PASSWORD
              Directory Manager (existing master) password

       -w, --admin-password
              Admin user Kerberos password used for connection check


   BASIC OPTIONS
       --ip-address=IP_ADDRESS
              The  IP  address  of  this  server.  If  this address does not match the address the host resolves to and --setup-dns is not selected the installation will fail. If the server hostname is not
              resolvable, a record for the hostname and IP_ADDRESS is added to /etc/hosts.  This this option can be used multiple times to specify more IP addresses of the server  (e.g.  multihomed  and/or
              dualstacked server).

       --mkhomedir
              Create home directories for users on their first login

       -N, --no-ntp
              Do not configure NTP

       --no-ui-redirect
              Do not automatically redirect to the Web UI.

       --ssh-trust-dns
              Configure OpenSSH client to trust DNS SSHFP records.

       --no-ssh
              Do not configure OpenSSH client.

       --no-sshd
              Do not configure OpenSSH server.

       --skip-conncheck
              Skip connection check to remote master

       -d, --debug
              Enable debug logging when more verbose output is needed

       -U, --unattended
              An unattended installation that will never prompt for user input

       --dirsrv-config-file
              The path to LDIF file that will be used to modify configuration of dse.ldif during installation of the directory server instance


   CERTIFICATE SYSTEM OPTIONS
       --setup-ca
              Install and configure a CA on this replica. If a CA is not configured then certificate operations will be forwarded to a master with a CA installed.

       --no-pkinit
              Disables pkinit setup steps. This is the default and only allowed behavior on domain level 0.

       --dirsrv-cert-file=FILE
              File containing the Directory Server SSL certificate and private key

       --http-cert-file=FILE
              File containing the Apache Server SSL certificate and private key

       --pkinit-cert-file=FILE
              File containing the Kerberos KDC SSL certificate and private key

       --dirsrv-pin=PIN
              The password to unlock the Directory Server private key

       --http-pin=PIN
              The password to unlock the Apache Server private key

       --pkinit-pin=PIN
              The password to unlock the Kerberos KDC private key

       --dirsrv-cert-name=NAME
              Name of the Directory Server SSL certificate to install

       --http-cert-name=NAME
              Name of the Apache Server SSL certificate to install

       --pkinit-cert-name=NAME
              Name of the Kerberos KDC SSL certificate to install

       --skip-schema-check
              Skip check for updated CA DS schema on the remote master


   SECRET MANAGEMENT OPTIONS
       --setup-kra
              Install and configure a KRA on this replica. If a KRA is not configured then vault operations will be forwarded to a master with a KRA installed.


   DNS OPTIONS
       --setup-dns
              Configure   an  integrated  DNS server, create a primary DNS zone (name specified by --domain or taken from an existing deployment), and fill it with service records necessary for IPA deploy‐
              ment.  In cases where the IPA server name does not belong to the primary DNS domain and is not resolvable using DNS, create a DNS zone containing the IPA server name as well.

              This option requires that you either specify at least one DNS forwarder through the --forwarder option or use the --no-forwarders option.

              Note that you can set up a DNS at any time after the initial IPA server install by running ipa-dns-install (see ipa-dns-install(1)).  IPA DNS cannot be uninstalled.

       --forwarder=IP_ADDRESS
              Add a DNS forwarder to the DNS configuration. You can use this option multiple times to specify more forwarders, but at least one must be provided, unless the --no-forwarders option is speci‐
              fied.

       --no-forwarders
              Do not add any DNS forwarders. Root DNS servers will be used instead.

       --auto-forwarders
              Add DNS forwarders configured in /etc/resolv.conf to the list of forwarders used by IPA DNS.

       --forward-policy=first|only
              DNS  forwarding  policy for global forwarders specified using other options.  Defaults to first if no IP address belonging to a private or reserved ranges is detected on local interfaces (RFC
              6303). Defaults to only if a private IP address is detected.

       --reverse-zone=REVERSE_ZONE
              The reverse DNS zone to use. This option can be used multiple times to specify multiple reverse zones.

       --no-reverse
              Do not create new reverse DNS zone. If a reverse DNS zone already exists for the subnet, it will be used.

       --auto-reverse
              Create necessary reverse zones

       --allow-zone-overlap
              Create DNS zone even if it already exists

       --no-host-dns
              Do not use DNS for hostname lookup during installation

       --no-dns-sshfp
              Do not automatically create DNS SSHFP records.

       --no-dnssec-validation
              Disable DNSSEC validation on this server.


   AD TRUST OPTIONS
       --setup-adtrust
              Configure AD Trust capability on a replica.

       --netbios-name=NETBIOS_NAME
              The NetBIOS name for the IPA domain. If not provided then this is determined based on the leading component of the DNS domain name. Running ipa-adtrust-install for a second time with  a  dif‐
              ferent NetBIOS name will change the name. Please note that changing the NetBIOS name might break existing trust relationships to other domains.

       --add-sids
              Add SIDs to existing users and groups as on of final steps of the ipa-adtrust-install run. If there a many existing users and groups and a couple of replicas in the environment this operation
              might lead to a high replication traffic and a performance degradation of all IPA servers in the environment. To avoid this the SID generation can be run after ipa-adtrust-install is run  and
              scheduled independently. To start this task you have to load an edited version of ipa-sidgen-task-run.ldif with the ldapmodify command info the directory server.

       --add-agents
              Add  IPA  masters  to the list that allows to serve information about users from trusted forests. Starting with IPA 4.2, a regular IPA master can provide this information to SSSD clients. IPA
              masters aren't added to the list automatically as restart of the LDAP service on each of them is required. The host where ipa-adtrust-install is being run is added automatically.

              Note that IPA masters where ipa-adtrust-install wasn't run, can serve information about users from trusted forests only if they are enabled via ipa-adtrust-install run on any other  IPA  mas‐
              ter. At least SSSD version 1.13 on IPA master is required to be able to perform as a trust agent.

       --rid-base=RID_BASE
              First RID value of the local domain. The first Posix ID of the local domain will be assigned to this RID, the second to RID+1 etc. See the online help of the idrange CLI for details.

       --secondary-rid-base=SECONDARY_RID_BASE
              Start value of the secondary RID range, which is only used in the case a user and a group share numerically the same Posix ID. See the online help of the idrange CLI for details.

       --enable-compat
              Enables  support for trusted domains users for old clients through Schema Compatibility plugin.  SSSD supports trusted domains natively starting with version 1.9. For platforms that lack SSSD
              or run older SSSD version one needs to use this option. When enabled, slapi-nis package needs to be installed and schema-compat-plugin will be configured to provide lookup of users and groups
              from  trusted  domains  via  SSSD on IPA server. These users and groups will be available under cn=users,cn=compat,$SUFFIX and cn=groups,cn=compat,$SUFFIX trees.  SSSD will normalize names of
              users and groups to lower case.

              In addition to providing these users and groups through the compat tree, this option enables authentication over LDAP for trusted domain users with DN under compat tree, i.e.  using  bind  DN
              uid=administrator@ad.domain,cn=users,cn=compat,$SUFFIX.

              LDAP  authentication  performed  by  the  compat tree is done via PAM 'system-auth' service.  This service exists by default on Linux systems and is provided by pam package as /etc/pam.d/sys‐
              tem-auth.  If your IPA install does not have default HBAC rule 'allow_all' enabled, then make sure to define in IPA special service called 'system-auth' and  create  an  HBAC  rule  to  allow
              access to anyone to this rule on IPA masters.

              As 'system-auth' PAM service is not used directly by any other application, it is safe to use it for trusted domain users via compatibility path.

EXIT STATUS
       0 if the command was successful

       1 if an error occurred

       3 if the host exists in the IPA server or a replication agreement to the remote master already exists



IPA                                                                                              Dec 19 2016                                                                           ipa-replica-install(1)
