RCP(1)                                                      BSD General Commands Manual                                                     RCP(1)

NAME
     rcp — remote file copy

SYNOPSIS
     rcp [-px] [-k realm] file1 file2
     rcp [-px] [-r] [-k realm] file ... directory

DESCRIPTION
     Rcp copies files between machines.  Each file or directory argument is either a remote file name of the form ``rname@rhost:path'', or a local
     file name (containing no `:' characters, or a `/' before any `:'s).

     -r    If any of the source files are directories, rcp copies each subtree rooted at that name; in this case the destination must be a direc‐
           tory.

     -p    The -p option causes rcp to attempt to preserve (duplicate) in its copies the modification times and modes of the source files, ignor‐
           ing the umask.  By default, the mode and owner of file2 are preserved if it already existed; otherwise the mode of the source file mod‐
           ified by the umask(2) on the destination host is used.

     -k    The -k option requests rcp to obtain tickets for the remote host in realm realm instead of the remote host's realm as determined by
           krb_realmofhost(3).

     -x    The -x option turns on DES encryption for all data passed by rcp.  This may impact response time and CPU utilization, but provides
           increased security.

     If path is not a full path name, it is interpreted relative to the login directory of the specified user ruser on rhost, or your current user
     name if no other remote user name is specified.  A path on a remote host may be quoted (using \, ", or ´) so that the metacharacters are
     interpreted remotely.

     Rcp does not prompt for passwords; it performs remote execution via rsh(1), and requires the same authorization.

     Rcp handles third party copies, where neither source nor target files are on the current machine.

SEE ALSO
     cp(1), ftp(1), rsh(1), rlogin(1)

HISTORY
     The rcp command appeared in 4.2BSD.  The version of rcp described here has been reimplemented with Kerberos in 4.3BSD-Reno.

BUGS
     Doesn't detect all cases where the target of a copy might be a file in cases where only a directory should be legal.

     Is confused by any output generated by commands in a .login, .profile, or .cshrc file on the remote host.

     The destination user and hostname may have to be specified as ``rhost.rname'' when the destination machine is running the 4.2BSD version of
     rcp.

Linux NetKit (0.17)                                               August 15, 1999                                              Linux NetKit (0.17)
