ogg123(1)                                                                                        Vorbis Tools                                                                                       ogg123(1)



NAME
       ogg123 - plays Ogg Vorbis files


SYNOPSIS
       ogg123 [ -vqrzZVh ] [ -k seconds ] [ -x nth ] [ -y ntimes ] [ -b buffer_size ] [ -d driver [ -o option:value ] [ -f filename ] ] file ...  | directory ...  | URL ...


DESCRIPTION
       ogg123  reads  Ogg  Vorbis audio files and decodes them to the devices specified on the command line.  By default, ogg123 writes to the standard sound device, but output can be sent to any number of
       devices.  Files can be read from the file system, or URLs can be streamed via HTTP.  If a directory is given, all of the files in it or its subdirectories will be played.


OPTIONS
       --audio-buffer n
              Use an output audio buffer of approximately 'n' kilobytes.

       -@ playlist, --list playlist
              Play all of the files named in the file 'playlist'.  The playlist should have one filename, directory name, or URL per line.  Blank lines are permitted.  Directories will be  treated  in  the
              same way as on the command line.

       -b n, --buffer n
              Use an input buffer of approximately 'n' kilobytes.  HTTP-only option.

       -p n, --prebuffer n
              Prebuffer 'n' percent of the input buffer.  Playback won't begin until this prebuffer is complete.  HTTP-only option.

       -d device, --device device
              Specify output device.  See DEVICES section for a list of devices.  Any number of devices may be specified.

       -f filename, --file filename
              Specify output file for file devices.  The filename "-" writes to standard out.  If the file already exists, ogg123 will overwrite it.

       -h, --help
              Show command help.

       -k n, --skip n
              Skip the first 'n' seconds.  'n' may also be in minutes:seconds or hours:minutes:seconds form.

       -K n, --end n
              Stops playing 'n' seconds from the start of the stream.  'n' may also have the same format as used in the --skip option.

       -o option[:value], --device-option option[:value]
              Sets the option option to value for the preceding device.  See DEVICES for a list of valid options for each device.

       -q, --quiet
              Quiet mode.  No messages are displayed.

       -V, --version
              Display version information.

       -v, --verbose
              Increase verbosity.

       -x n, --nth
              Play every 'n'th decoded block.  Has the effect of playing audio at 'n' times faster than normal speed.

       -y n, --ntimes
              Repeat every played block 'n' times.  Has the effect of playing audio 'n' times slower than normal speed.  May be with -x for interesting fractional speeds.

       -r, --repeat
              Repeat playlist indefinitely.

       -z, --shuffle
              Play files in pseudo-random order.

       -Z, --random
              Play files in pseudo-random order forever.


DEVICES
       ogg123  supports  a  variety of audio output devices through libao.  Only those devices supported by the target platform will be available.  The -f option may only be used with devices that write to
       files.

       Options supported by all devices:

              debug  Turn on debugging output [if any] for a chosen driver.

              matrix:value
                     Force a specific output channel ordering for a given device.  value is a comma seperated list of AO style channel names, eg, L,R,C,LFE,BL,BR,SL,SR.

              verbose
                     Turn on verbose output for a chosen driver. the -v option will also set the driver verbose option.

              quiet  Force chosen driver to be completely silent.  Even errors will not produce any output. -q will also set the driver quiet option.


       aixs   AIX live output driver. Options:

              dev:value
                     Set AIX output device to value


       alsa   Advanced Linux Sound Architecture live output driver. Options:

              buffer_time:value
                     Override the default hardware buffer size (in milliseconds).

              dev:value
                     ALSA device label to use. Examples include "hw:0" for the first soundcard and "hw:1" for the second.  The alsa driver normally chooses one of "surround71",  "surround51",  "surround40"
                     or "default" automatically depending on number of output channels.  For more information, see http://alsa.opensrc.org/ALSA+device+labels

              period_time:value
                     Override the default hardware period size (in microseconds).

              period_time:value
                     Override the default hardware period size (in microseconds).

              use_mmap:value
                     value  is  set  to "yes" or "no" to override the compiled-in default to use or not use mmap device access.  In the past, some buggy alsa drivers have behaved better when not using mmap
                     access at the penalty of slightly higher CPU usage.


       arts   aRts Sound Daemon live output driver. Options:

              multi:value
                     value is set to "yes" or "no" to allow opening the aRts playback device for multiply concurrent playback.  Although the driver works properly in multi mode, it is known to occasionally
                     crash the aRts server itself.  Default behavior is "no".


       au     Sun  audio  file  output.  Writes the audio samples in AU format.  The AU format supports writing to unseekable files like standard out.  In such circumstances, the AU header will specify the
              sample format, but not the length of the recording.


       esd    Enlightened Sound Daemon live output. Options:

              host:value
                     value specifies the hostname where esd is running.  This can include a port number after a colon, as in "whizbang.com:555".  (Default = localhost)


       irix   IRIX live output audio driver.


       macosx MacOS X 'AUHAL' live output driver.  This driver supports MacOS X 10.5 and later (10.4 and earlier uses an earlier, incompatable interface). Options:

              buffer_time:value
                     Set the hardware buffer size to the equivalent of value milliseconds.


       nas    Network Audio Server live output driver. Options:

              buf_size:value
                     Set size of audio buffer on server in bytes.

              host:value
                     Set location of NAS server; See nas(1) for format.


       null   Null driver.  All audio data is discarded.  (Note: Audio data is not written to /dev/null !)  You could use this driver to test raw decoding speed without output overhead.


       oss    Open Sound System driver for Linux and FreeBSD, versions 2, 3 and 4. Options:

              dsp:value
                     DSP device for soundcard.  Defaults to /dev/dsp.


       pulse  Pulseaudio live audio sound driver. Options:

              server:value
                     Specifies location of remote or alternate Pulseaudio server.

              sink:value
                     Specifies a non-default Pulseaudio sink for audio stream.


       raw    Raw file output.  Writes raw audio samples to a file. Options:

              byteorder:value
                     Chooses big endian ("big"), little endian ("little"), or native ("native") byte order.  Default is native order.


       roar   Roar Audio Daemon live output driver. Options:

              host:value
                     Specifies location of remote Roar server to use.


       sndio  OpenBSD SNDIO live output driver. Options:

              dev:value
                     Specifies audio device to use for playback.


       sun    Sun Audio live output driver for NetBSD, OpenBSD, and Solaris. Options:

              dev:value
                     Audio device for soundcard.  Defaults to /dev/audio.



       wav    WAV file output.  Writes the sound data to disk in uncompressed form.  If multiple files are played, all of them will be concatenated into the same WAV file.  WAV files cannot be  written  to
              unseekable files, such as standard out.  Use the AU format instead.


       wmm    Windows MultiMedia live output driver for Win98 and later. Options:

              dev:value
                     Selects audio device to use for playback by device name.

              id:value
                     Selects audio device to use for playback by device id (card number).


EXAMPLES
       The ogg123 command line is fairly flexible, perhaps confusingly so.  Here are some sample command lines and an explanation of what they do.

       Play on the default soundcard:
              ogg123 test.ogg

       Play all of the files in the directory ~/music and its subdirectories.
              ogg123 ~/music

       Play a file using the OSS driver:
              ogg123 -d oss test.ogg

       Pass the "dsp" option to the OSS driver:
              ogg123 -d oss -o dsp:/dev/mydsp

       Use the ESD driver
              ogg123 -d esd test.ogg

       Use the WAV driver with the output file, "test.wav":
              ogg123 -d wav -f test.wav test.ogg

       Listen to a file while you write it to a WAV file:
              ogg123 -d oss -d wav -f test.wav test.ogg

       Note that options apply to the device declared to the left:
              ogg123 -d oss -o dsp:/dev/mydsp -d raw -f test2.raw -o byteorder:big test.ogg

       Stress test your harddrive:
              ogg123 -d oss -d wav -f 1.wav -d wav -f 2.wav -d wav -f 3.wav -d wav -f 4.wav -d wav -f 5.wav test.ogg

       Create an echo effect with esd and a slow computer:
              ogg123 -d esd -d esd test.ogg

INTERRUPT
       You  can  abort  ogg123  at any time by pressing Ctrl-C.  If you are playing multiple files, this will stop the current file and begin playing the next one.  If you want to abort playing immediately
       instead of skipping to the next file, press Ctrl-C within the first second of the playback of a new file.

       Note that the result of pressing Ctrl-C might not be audible immediately, due to audio data buffering in the audio device.  This delay is system dependent, but it is usually not more than one or two
       seconds.


FILES
       /etc/libao.conf
              Can be used to set the default output device for all libao programs.


       ~/.libao
              Per-user config file to override the system wide output device settings.

BUGS
       Piped  WAV files may cause strange behavior in other programs.  This is because WAV files store the data length in the header.  However, the output driver does not know the length when it writes the
       header, and there is no value that means "length unknown".  Use the raw or au output driver if you need to use ogg123 in a pipe.


AUTHORS
       Program Authors:
              Kenneth Arnold <kcarnold-xiph@arnoldnet.net>
              Stan Seibert <volsung@xiph.org>


       Manpage Author:
              Stan Seibert <volsung@xiph.org>


SEE ALSO
       libao.conf(5), oggenc(1), vorbiscomment(1), ogginfo(1)




Xiph.Org Foundation                                                                             2010 March 24                                                                                       ogg123(1)
