GROHTML(1)                                                    General Commands Manual                                                   GROHTML(1)

NAME
       grohtml - html driver for groff

SYNOPSIS
       grohtml [ -bhlnprv ] [ -aaa-text-bits ] [ -Ddir ] [ -Fdir ] [ -gaa-graphic-bits ] [ -iresolution ] [ -Iimage-stem ] [ -jfilename ]
               [ -oimage-vertical-offset ] [ -ssize ] [ -Slevel ] [ -xhtml-dialect ] [ files... ]

DESCRIPTION
       The grohtml front end (which consists of a preprocessor, pre-grohtml, and a device driver, post-grohtml) translates the output of GNU troff
       to  html.   Users  should  always  invoke grohtml via the groff command with a -Thtml option.  If no files are given, grohtml will read the
       standard input.  A filename of - will also cause grohtml to read the standard input.  Html output is written to the standard output.   When
       grohtml is run by groff options can be passed to grohtml using groff's -P option.

       grohtml  invokes  groff twice.  In the first pass, pictures, equations, and tables are rendered using the ps device, and in the second pass
       HTML output is generated by the html device.

       grohtml always writes output in UTF-8 encoding and has built-in entities for all non-composite unicode characters.  In spite of this, groff
       may  issue  warnings  about  unknown  special characters if they can't be found during the first pass.  Such warnings can be safely ignored
       unless the special characters appear inside a table or equation.

OPTIONS
       -aaa-text-bits
              Number of bits of antialiasing information to be used by text when generating png images.  The default is 4 but valid values are  0,
              1,  2,  and  4.   Note  your  version  of gs needs to support the -dTextAlphaBits and -dGraphicAlphaBits options in order to exploit
              antialiasing.  A value of 0 stops grohtml from issuing antialiasing commands to gs.

       -b     Initialize the background color to white.

       -Ddir  Inform grohtml to place all image files into directory dir.

       -e     This option should not be directly invoked by the user as it is an internal option utilized by groff when -Thtml or -Txhtml is spec‐
              ified.  It is used by the grohtml preprocessor to determine whether eqn should attempt to produce MathML (if -Txhtml is specified).

       -Fdir  Prepend  directory  dir/devname  to  the  search path for font and device description files; name is the name of the device, usually
              html.

       -gaa-graphic-bits
              Number of bits of antialiasing information to be used by graphics when generating png images.  The default is 4 but valid values are
              0,  1,  2,  and  4.  Note your version of gs needs to support the -dTextAlphaBits and -dGraphicAlphaBits options in order to exploit
              antialiasing.  A value of 0 stops grohtml from issuing antialiasing commands to gs.

       -h     Generate section and number headings by using <B>...</B> and increasing the font size, rather than using the <Hn>...</Hn> tags.

       -iresolution
              Select the resolution for all images.  By default this is 100 pixels per inch.  Example: -i200 indicates 200 pixels per inch.

       -Istem Determine the image stem name.  If omitted grohtml uses grohtml-XXX (XXX is the process ID).

       -jfilename
              Inform grohtml to split the html output into multiple files.  The filename is the stem and specified section  headings  (default  is
              level one) start a new file, named filename-n.html.

       -l     Turn off the production of automatic section links at the top of the document.

       -n     Generate  simple  heading  anchors  whenever  a section/number heading is found.  Without the option the anchor value is the textual
              heading.  This can cause problems when a heading contains a ‘?’ on older versions of some browsers (Netscape).  This flag  is  auto‐
              matically turned on if a heading contains an image.

       -overtical-offset
              Specify the vertical offset of images in points.

       -p     Display page rendering progress to stderr.  grohtml only displays a page number when an image is required.

       -r     Turn off the automatic header and footer line (html rule).

       -s size
              Set  the  base  point size of the source file.  Thereafter when this point size is used in the source it will correspond to the html
              base size.  Every increase of two points in the source will yield a <big> tag, and conversely when a decrease of two points is  seen
              a <small> tag is emitted.

       -Slevel
              When splitting html output, split at the heading level (or higher) defined by level.

       -v     Print the version number.

       -V     Create an XHTML or HTML validator button at the bottom of each page of the document.

       -xdialect
              Select  HTML dialect.  Currently, dialect should be either the digit 4 or the letter x which indicates whether grohtml should gener‐
              ate HTML 4 or XHTML, respectively.  This option should not be directly invoked by the user as it is an internal option  utilized  by
              groff when -Thtml or -Txhtml is specified.

       -y     Produce a right-justified groff signature at the end of the document.  This is only generated if the -V flag is also specified.

USAGE
       There are styles called R, I, B, and BI mounted at font positions 1 to 4.

DEPENDENCIES
       grohtml  is  dependent  upon  the png utilities (pnmcut, pnmcrop, pnmtopng) and GhostScript (gs).  pnmtopng (version 2.37.6 or greater) and
       pnmcut from the netpbm package (version 9.16 or greater) will work also.  It is also dependent upon  psselect  from  the  PSUtils  package.
       Images are generated whenever a table, picture, equation or line is encountered.

FILES
       grohtml uses temporary files.  See the groff(1) man page for details where such files are created.

ENVIRONMENT
       GROFF_FONT_PATH
              A  list of directories in which to search for the devname directory in addition to the default ones.  See troff(1) and groff_font(5)
              for more details.

       SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH
              A timestamp (expressed as seconds since the Unix epoch) to use as the creation timestamp in place of the current time.

BUGS
       Grohtml has been completely redesigned and rewritten.  It is still beta code.

SEE ALSO
       afmtodit(1), groff(1), troff(1), psbb(1), groff_out(5), groff_font(5), groff_char(7)

LICENSE
       Copyright © 1999-2014 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

       Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual provided the copyright notice and this  permission  notice  are
       preserved on all copies.

       Permission  is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
       entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice identical to this one.

       Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual into another language, under the  above  conditions  for  modified
       versions,  except  that  this  permission notice may be included in translations approved by the Free Software Foundation instead of in the
       original English.

Groff Version 1.22.3                                              28 January 2016                                                       GROHTML(1)
