PSK-CRACK(1)                                                  General Commands Manual                                                 PSK-CRACK(1)

NAME
       psk-crack - Crack IKE Aggressive Mode Pre-Shared Keys

SYNOPSIS
       psk-crack [options] <psk-parameters-file>

       <psk-parameters-file>  is a file containing the parameters for the pre-shared key cracking process in the format generated by ike-scan with
       the --pskcrack (-P) option.  This file can contain one or more entries.  For multiple entries, each one must be on a separate line.

       The program can crack either MD5 or SHA1-based hashes.  The type of hash is automatically determined from the length of the hash (16  bytes
       for  MD5 or 20 bytes for SHA1).  Each entry in the <psk-parameters-file> is handled separately, so it is possible to crack a mixture of MD5
       and SHA1 hashes.

       psk-crack can also crack the proprietary hash format used by Nortel Contivity / VPN Router systems.  When cracking  Nortel  format  hashes,
       you  need to specify the username of the hash that you are cracking with the --norteluser (-u) option.  When cracking Nortel format hashes,
       you can only crack one hash at a time.

       By default, psk-crack will perform dictionary cracking using the default dictionary.  The dictionary can be changed with  the  --dictionary
       (-d) option, or brute-force cracking can be selected with the --bruteforce (-B) option.

DESCRIPTION
       psk-crack  attempts  to  crack  IKE  Aggressive  Mode pre-shared keys that have previously been gathered using ike-scan with the --pskcrack
       option.

       psk-crack can operate in two different modes:

       1)     Dictionary cracking mode: this is the default mode in which psk-crack tries each candidate word from the  dictionary  file  in  turn
              until it finds a match, or all the words in the dictionary have been tried.

       2)     Brute-force  cracking  mode:  in  this  mode,  psk-crack  tries all possible combinations of a specified character set up to a given
              length.

OPTIONS
       --help or -h
              Display this usage message and exit.

       --version or -V
              Display program version and exit.

       --verbose or -v
              Display verbose progress messages.

       --dictionary=<f> or -d <f>
              Set dictionary file to <f>.  The default is /usr/local/share/ike-scan/psk-crack-dictionary.

       --norteluser=<u> or -u <u>
              Specify the username for Nortel Contivity cracking.  This option is required when cracking pre-shared keys on Nortel Contivity / VPN
              Router  systems.   These  systems  use  a  proprietary method to calculate the hash that includes the username.  This option is only
              needed when cracking Nortel format hashes, and should not be used for standard format hashes.

       --bruteforce=<n> or -B <n>
              Select bruteforce cracking up to <n> characters.

       --charset=<s> or -c <s>
              Set bruteforce character set to <s> Default is "0123456789abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz"

AUTHOR
       Roy Hills <Roy.Hills@nta-monitor.com>

                                                                 February 14, 2005                                                    PSK-CRACK(1)
