REPREPRO(1)                                                          REPREPRO                                                          REPREPRO(1)

NAME
       reprepro - produce, manage and sync a local repository of Debian packages

SYNOPSIS
       reprepro --help

       reprepro [ options ] command [ per-command-arguments ]

DESCRIPTION
       reprepro  is  a tool to manage a repository of Debian packages (.deb, .udeb, .dsc, ...).  It stores files either being injected manually or
       downloaded from some other repository (partially) mirrored into a pool/ hierarchy.  Managed packages and checksums of files are stored in a
       Berkeley  DB  database  file, so no database server is needed.  Checking signatures of mirrored repositories and creating signatures of the
       generated Package indices is supported.

       Former working title of this program was mirrorer.

GLOBAL OPTIONS
       Options can be specified before the command. Each affects a different subset of commands and is ignored by other commands.

       -h --help
              Displays a short list of options and commands with description.

       -v, -V, --verbose
              Be more verbose. Can be applied multiple times. One uppercase -V counts as five lowercase -v.

       --silent
              Be less verbose. Can be applied multiple times. One -v and one -s cancel each other out.

       -f, --force
              This option is ignored, as it no longer exists.

       -b, --basedir basedir
              Sets the base-dir all other default directories are relative to.  If none is supplied and the REPREPRO_BASE_DIR environment variable
              is not set either, the current directory will be used.

       --outdir outdir
              Sets  the  base-dir  of  the  repository  to manage, i.e. where the pool/ subdirectory resides. And in which the dists/ directory is
              placed by default.  If this starts with '+b/', it is relative to basedir.

              The default for this is basedir.

       --confdir confdir
              Sets the directory where the configuration is searched in.

              If this starts with '+b/', it is relative to basedir.

              If none is given, +b/conf (i.e. basedir/conf) will be used.

       --distdir distdir
              Sets the directory to generate index files relatively to. (i.e. things like Packages.gz, Sources.gz and Release.gpg)

              If this starts with '+b/', it is relative to basedir, if starting with '+o/' relative to outdir.

              If none is given, +o/dists (i.e. outdir/dists) is used.

              Note: apt has dists hard-coded in it, so this is mostly only useful for testing or when your webserver  pretends  another  directory
              structure than your physical layout.

              Warning: Beware when changing this forth and back between two values not ending in the same directory.  Reprepro only looks if files
              it wants are there. If nothing of the content changed and there is a file it will not touch it, assuming it is the one it wrote last
              time,  assuming  any different --distdir ended in the same directory.  So either clean a directory before setting --distdir to it or
              do an export with the new one first to have a consistent state.

       --logdir logdir
              The directory where files generated by the Log: directive are stored if they have no absolute path.

              If this starts with '+b/', it is relative to basedir, if starting with '+o/' relative to outdir, with '+c/' relative to confdir.

              If none is given, +b/logs (i.e. basedir/logs) is used.

       --dbdir dbdir
              Sets the directory where reprepro keeps its databases.

              If this starts with '+b/', it is relative to basedir, if starting with '+o/' relative to outdir, with '+c/' relative to confdir.

              If none is given, +b/db (i.e. basedir/db) is used.

              Note: This is permanent data, no cache. One has almost to regenerate the whole repository when this is lost.

       --listdir listdir
              Sets the directory where downloads it downloads indices to when importing from other repositories. This is temporary data and can be
              safely deleted when not in an update run.

              If this starts with '+b/', it is relative to basedir, if starting with '+o/' relative to outdir, with '+c/' relative to confdir.

              If none is given, +b/lists (i.e. basedir/lists) is used.

       --morguedir morguedir
              Files deleted from the pool are stored into morguedir.

              If this starts with '+b/', it is relative to basedir, if starting with '+o/' relative to outdir, with '+c/' relative to confdir.

              If none is given, deleted files are just deleted.

       --methoddir methoddir
              Look in methoddir instead of /usr/lib/apt/methods for methods to call when importing from other repositories.

       -C, --component components
              Limit  the  specified  command  to this components only.  This will force added packages to this components, limit removing packages
              from this components, only list packages in this components, and/or otherwise only look at packages in this components, depending on
              the command in question.

              Multiple components are specified by separating them with |, as in -C 'main|contrib'.

       -A, --architecture architectures
              Limit  the  specified  command  to  this architectures only.  (i.e. only list such packages, only remove packages from the specified
              architectures, or otherwise only look at/act on this architectures depending on the specific command).

              Multiple architectures are specified by separating them with |, as in -A 'sparc|i386'.

              Note that architecture all packages can be included to each architecture but are then handled separately.  Thus by  using  -A  in  a
              specific way one can have different versions of an architecture all package in different architectures of the same distribution.

       -T, --type dsc|deb|udeb
              Limit  the specified command to this packagetypes only.  (i.e. only list such packages, only remove such packages, only include such
              packages, ...)

       -S, --section section
              Overrides the section of inclusions. (Also override possible override files)

       -P, --priority priority
              Overrides the priority of inclusions. (Also override possible override files)

       --export=(never|changed|lookedat|force)
              This option specify whether and how the high level actions (e.g. install, update, pull, delete) should export the index files of the
              distributions they work with.

       --export=lookedat
              In this mode every distribution the action handled will be exported, unless there was an error possibly corrupting it.
              Note that only missing files and files whose intended content changed between before and after the action will be written.  To get a
              guaranteed current export, use the export action.
              For backwards compatibility, lookedat is also available under the old name normal.  The  name  normal  is  deprecated  and  will  be
              removed in future versions.

       --export=changed
              In this mode every distribution actually changed will be exported, unless there was an error possibly corrupting it.  (i.e. if noth‐
              ing changed, not even missing files will be created.)
              Note that only missing files and files whose intended content changed between before and after the action will be written.  To get a
              guaranteed current export, use the export action.

       --export=force
              Always export all distributions looked at, even if there was some error possibly bringing it into a inconsistent state.

       --export=never
              No index files are exported. You will have to call export later.
              Note  that  you most likely additionally need the --keepunreferencedfiles option, if you do not want some of the files pointed to by
              the untouched index files to vanish.

       --ignore=what
              Ignore errors of type what. See the section ERROR IGNORING for possible values.

       --nolistsdownload
              When running update, checkupdate or predelete do not download any Release or index files.  This is hardly  useful  except  when  you
              just  run one of those command for the same distributions.  And even then reprepro is usually good in not downloading except Release
              and Release.gpg files again.

       --nothingiserror
              If nothing was done, return with exitcode 1 instead of the usual 0.

              Note that "nothing was done" means the primary purpose of the action in question.  Auxillary actions (opening and closeing the data‐
              base,  exporting  missing files with --export=lookedat, ...) usually do not count.  Also note that this is not very well tested.  If
              you find an action that claims to have done something in some cases where you think it should not, please let me know.

       --keeptemporaries
              Do not delete temporary .new files when exporting a distribution fails.  (reprepro first create .new files in  the  dists  directory
              and  only  if  everything is generated, all files are put into their final place at once.  If this option is not specified and some‐
              thing fails, all are deleted to keep dists clean).

       --keepunreferencedfiles
              Do not delete files that are no longer used because the package they are from is deleted/replaced with a newer version from the last
              distribution it was in.

       --keepunusednewfiles
              The include, includedsc, includedeb and processincoming by default delete any file they added to the pool that is not marked used at
              the end of the operation.  While this keeps the pool clean and allows changing before trying to add again, this  needs  copying  and
              checksum calculation every time one tries to add a file.

       --keepdirectories
              Do  not  try  to rmdir parent directories after files or directories have been removed from them.  (Do this if your directories have
              special permissions you want keep, do not want to be pestered with warnings about errors to remove them, or have a buggy rmdir  call
              deleting non-empty directories.)

       --ask-passphrase
              Ask  for  passphrases  when signing things and one is needed. This is a quick and dirty implementation using the obsolete getpass(3)
              function with the description gpgme is supplying. So the prompt will look quite funny and support for passphrases with more  than  8
              characters depend on your libc.  I suggest using gpg-agent or something like that instead.

       --noskipold
              When updating do not skip targets where no new index files and no files marked as already processed are available.

              If  you  changed  a  script to preprocess downloaded index files or changed a Listfilter, you most likely want to call reprepro with
              --noskipold.

       --waitforlock count
              If there is a lockfile indicating another instance of reprepro is currently using the database, retry count times after waiting  for
              10 seconds each time.  The default is 0 and means to error out instantly.

       --spacecheck full|none
              The default is full:
              In the update commands, check for every to be downloaded file which filesystem it is on and how much space is left.
              To disable this behaviour, use none.

       --dbsafetymargin bytes-count
              If checking for free space, reserve byte-count bytes on the filesystem containing the db/ directory.  The default is 104857600 (i.e.
              100MB), which is quite large.  But as there is no way to know in advance how large the databases will grow and  libdb  is  extremely
              touchy in that regard, lower only when you know what you do.

       --safetymargin bytes-count
              If  checking for free space, reserve byte-count bytes on filesystems not containing the db/ directory.  The default is 1048576 (i.e.
              1MB).

       --noguessgpgtty
              Don't set the environment variable GPG_TTY, even when it is not set, stdin is terminal and /proc/self/fd/0 is  a  readable  symbolic
              link.

       --gnupghome
              Set  the  GNUPGHOME  evnironment  variable to the given directory as argument to this option.  And your gpg will most likely use the
              content of this variable instead of "~/.gnupg".  Take a look at gpg(1) to be sure.  This option in the command line is  usually  not
              very  useful,  as  it is possible to set the environment variable directly.  Its main reason for existance is that it can be used in
              conf/options.

       --gunzip gz-uncompressor
              While reprepro links against libz, it will look for the program given with this option (or gunzip if not given) and  use  that  when
              uncompressing index files while downloading from remote repositories.  (So that downloading and uncompression can happen at the same
              time).  If the program is not found or is NONE (all-uppercase) then uncompressing will always be done using the built in  uncompres‐
              sion method.  The program has to accept the compressed file as stdin and write the uncompressed file into stdout.

       --bunzip2 bz2-uncompressor
              When uncompressing downloaded index files or when not linked against libbz2 reprepro will use this program to uncompress .bz2 files.
              The default value is bunzip2.  If the program is not found or is NONE (all-uppercase) then uncompressing will always be  done  using
              the  built in uncompression method or not be possible when not linked against libbz2.  The program has to accept the compressed file
              as stdin and write the uncompressed file into stdout.

       --unlzma lzma-uncompressor
              When trying to uncompress or read lzma compressed files, this program will be used.  The default value is unlzma.  If the program is
              not  found  or is NONE (all-uppercase) then uncompressing lzma files will not be possible.  The program has to accept the compressed
              file as stdin and write the uncompressed file into stdout.

       --unxz xz-uncompressor
              When trying to uncompress or read xz compressed files, this program will be used.  The default value is unxz.  If the program is not
              found or is NONE (all-uppercase) then uncompressing xz files will not be possible.  The program has to accept the compressed file as
              stdin and write the uncompressed file into stdout.

       --lunzip lzip-uncompressor
              When trying to uncompress or read lzip compressed files, this program will be used.  The default value is lunzip.  If the program is
              not  found  or  is  NONE (all-uppercase) then uncompressing lz files will not be possible.  The program has to accept the compressed
              file as stdin and write the uncompressed file into stdout.

       --list-max count
              Limits the output of list, listmatched and listfilter to the first count results.  The default is 0, which means unlimited.

       --list-skip count
              Omitts the first count results from the output of list, listmatched and listfilter.

       --list-format format
              Set the output format of list, listmatched and listfilter commands.  The format is similar to dpkg-query's --showformat: fields  are
              specified as ${fieldname} or ${fieldname;length}.  Zero length or no length means unlimited.  Positive numbers mean fill with spaces
              right, negative fill with spaces left.

              \n, \r, \t, \0 are new-line, carriage-return, tabulator and zero-byte.  Backslash (\) can be used  to  escape  every  non-letter-or-
              digit.

              The special field names $identifier, $architecture, $component, $type, $codename denote where the package was found.

              The  special  field  names  $source and $sourceversion denote the source and source version a package belongs to.  (i.e.  ${$source}
              will either be the same as ${source} (without a possible version in parentheses at the end) or the same as ${package}.

              The special field names $basename, $filekey and $fullfilename denote the first package file part of this  entry  (i.e.  usually  the
              .deb,  .udeb  or  .dsc  file)  as basename, as filekey (filename relative to the outdir) and the full filename with outdir prepended
              (i.e. as relative or absolute as your outdir (or basedir if you did not set outdir) is).

              When --list-format is not given or NONE, then the default is equivalent to
              ${$identifier} ${package} ${version}\n.

              Escaping digits or letters not in above list, using dollars not escaped outside specified constructs, or any field names not  listed
              as  special  and  not  consisting  entirely out of letters, digits and minus signs have undefined behaviour and might change meaning
              without any further notice.

              If you give this option on the command line, don't forget that $ is also interpreted by your shell.  So you have to properly  escape
              it.  For example by putting the whole argument to --list-format in single quotes.

       --show-percent
              When  downloading  packages,  show  each completed percent of completed package downloads together with the size of completely down‐
              loaded packages.  (Repeating this option increases the frequency of this output).

       --onlysmalldeletes
              The pull and update commands will skip every distribution in which one target loses more than 20% of its packages (and at least 10).

              Using this option (or putting it in the options config file) can avoid removing large quantities of data but means you  might  often
              give --noonlysmalldeletes to override it.

       --restrict src[=version|:type]
              Restrict a pull or update to only act on packages belonging to source-package src.  Any other package will not be updated (unless it
              matches a --restrict-bin).  Only packages that would otherwise be updated or are at least marked with hold in a FilterList or Filer‐
              SrcList will be updated.

              The action can be restricted to a source version using a equal sign or changed to another type (see FilterList) using a colon.

              This option can be given multiple times to list multiple packages, but each package may only be named once (even when there are dif‐
              ferent versions or types).

       --restrict-binary name[=version|:type]
              Like --restrict but restrict to binary packages (.deb and .udeb).  Source  packages  are  not  upgraded  unless  they  appear  in  a
              --restrict.

       --restrict-file filename
              Like --restrict but read a whole file in the FilterSrcList format.

       --restrict-file-bin filename
              Like --restrict-bin but read a whole file in the FilterList format.

       --endhook hookscript

              Run  the  specified hookscript once reprepro exits.  It will get the usual REPREPRO_* environment variables set (or unset) and addi‐
              tionally a variable REPREPRO_EXIT_CODE that is the exit code with which reprepro would have exited (the hook is always  called  once
              the  initial  parsing  of  global  options  and the command name is done, no matter if reprepro did anything or not).  Reprepro will
              return to the calling process with the exitcode of this script.  Reprepro has closed all its databases and removed all its locks, so
              you can run reprepro again in this script (unless someone else did so in the same repository before, of course).

              The  only advantage over running that command always directly after reprepro is that you can some environment variables set and can‐
              not so easily forget it if this option is in conf/options.

              The script is supposed to be located relative to confdir, unless its name starts with /, ./, +b/, +o/, or +c/ and the name  may  not
              start (except in the cases given before) with a +.

              An example script looks like:
               #!/bin/sh

               if [ "$REPREPRO_EXIT_CODE" -ne 0 ] ; then
                   exit "$REPREPRO_EXIT_CODE"
               fi

               echo "congratulations, reprepro with arguments: $*"
               echo "seems to have run successfully. REPREPRO_ part of the environment is:"
               set | grep ^REPREPRO_

               exit 0

       --outhook hookscript
              hookscript is called with a .outlog file as argument (located in logdir) containing a description of all changes made to outdir.

              The  script  is supposed to be located relative to confdir, unless its name starts with /, ./, +b/, +o/, or +c/ and the name may not
              start (except in the cases given before) with a +.

              For a format of the .outlog files generated for this script see the manual.html shiped with reprepro.

COMMANDS
       export [ codenames ]
              Generate all index files for the specified distributions.

              This regenerates all files unconditionally.  It is only useful if you want to be sure dists is up to date,  you  called  some  other
              actions with --export=never before or you want to create an initial empty but fully equipped dists/codename directory.

        [ --delete ] createsymlinks [ codenames ]
              Creates suite symbolic links in the dists/-directory pointing to the corresponding codename.

              It  will  not  create  links,  when multiple of the given codenames would be linked from the same suite name, or if the link already
              exists (though when --delete is given it will delete already existing symlinks)

       list codename [ packagename ]
              List all packages (source and binary, except when -T or -A is given) with the given name in all components (except when -C is given)
              and  architectures (except when -A is given) of the specified distribution.  If no package name is given, list everything.  The for‐
              mat of the output can be changed with --list-format.  To only get parts of the result, use --list-max and --list-skip.

       listmatched codename glob
              as list, but does not list a single package, but all packages matching the given shell-like  glob.   (i.e.  *,  ?  and  [chars]  are
              allowed).

              Examples:

              reprepro -b . listmatched test2 'linux-*' lists all packages starting with linux-.

       listfilter codename condition
              as list, but does not list a single package, but all packages matching the given condition.

              The  format  of the formulas is those of the dependency lines in Debian packages' control files with some extras.  That means a for‐
              mula consists of names of fields with a possible condition for its content in parentheses.  These atoms  can  be  combined  with  an
              exclamation  mark  '!' (meaning not), a pipe symbol '|' (meaning or) and a comma ',' (meaning and).  Additionally parentheses can be
              used to change binding (otherwise '!' binds more than '|' than ',').

              The values given in the search expression are directly alphabetically compared to the headers in the respective  index  file.   That
              means that each part Fieldname (cmp value) of the formula will be true for exactly those package that have in the Package or Sources
              file a line starting with fieldname and a value is alphabetically cmp to value.

              Additionally since reprepro 3.11.0, '%' can be used as comparison operator, denoting matching a name with shell like wildcard  (with
              '*', '?' and '[..]').

              The special field names starting with '$' have special meaning (available since 3.11.1):

              $Version

              The version of the package, comparison is not alphabetically, but as Debian version strings.

              $Source

              The source name of the package.

              $SourceVersion

              The source version of the package.

              $Architecture

              The architecture the package is in (listfilter) or to be put into.

              $Component

              The component the package is in (listfilter) or to be put into.

              $Packagetype

              The packagetype of the package.

              Examples:

              reprepro  -b . listfilter test2 'Section (== admin)' will list all packages in distribution test2 with a Section field and the value
              of that field being admin.

              reprepro -b . -T deb listfilter test2 'Source (== blub) | ( !Source , Package (== blub) )' will find all .deb Packages with either a
              Source  field  blub or no Source field and a Package field blub.  (That means all package generated by a source package blub, except
              those also specifying a version number with its Source).

              reprepro -b . -T deb listfilter test2 '$Source (==blub) is the better way to do this (but only available since 3.11.1).

              reprepro -b . listfilter test2 '$PackageType (==deb), $Source (==blub) is another (less efficient) way.

              reprepro -b . listfilter test2 'Package (% linux-*-2.6*)' lists all packages with names starting with linux-  and  later  having  an
              -2.6.

       ls package-name
              List the versions of the the specified package in all distributions.

       lsbycomponent package-name
              Like ls, but group by component (and print component names).

       remove codename package-names
              Delete  all  packages in the specified distribution, that have package name listed as argument.  (i.e. remove all packages list with
              the same arguments and options would list, except that an empty package list is not allowed.)

              Note that like any other operation removing or replacing a package, the old package's files are unreferenced and thus may  be  auto‐
              matically deleted if this was their last reference and no --keepunreferencedfiles specified.

       removematched codename glob
              Delete all packages listmatched with the same arguments would list.

       removefilter codename condition
              Delete all packages listfilter with the same arguments would list.

       removesrc codename source-name [version]
              Remove all packages in distribution codename belonging to source package source-name.  (Limited to those with source version version
              if specified).

              If package tracking is activated, it will use that information to find the packages, otherwise it traverses all package indices  for
              the distribution.

       removesrcs codename source-name[=version] ...
              Like removesrc, but can be given multiple source names and source versions must be specified by appending '=' and the version to the
              name (without spaces).

       update [ codenames ]
              Sync the specified distributions (all if none given) as specified in the  config  with  their  upstreams.  See  the  description  of
              conf/updates below.

       checkupdate [ codenames ]
              Same like update, but will show what it will change instead of actually changing it.

       dumpupdate [ codenames ]
              Same like checkupdate, but less suiteable for humans and more suitable for computers.

       predelete [ codenames ]
              This  will  determine  which  packages  a update would delete or replace and remove those packages.  This can be useful for reducing
              space needed while upgrading, but there will be some time where packages are vanished from the lists so clients will  mark  them  as
              obsolete.  Plus if you cannot download a updated package in the (hopefully) following update run, you will end up with no package at
              all instead of an old one.  This will also blow up .diff files if you are using the pdiff example or something similar.  So be care‐
              ful when using this option or better get some more space so that update works.

       cleanlists
              Delete  all files in listdir (default basedir/lists) that do not belong to any update rule for any distribution.  I.e. all files are
              deleted in that directory that no update command in the current configuration can use.  (The files are usually  left  there,  so  if
              they are needed again they do not need to be downloaded again. Though in many easy cases not even those files will be needed.)

       pull [ codenames ]
              pull  in  newer  packages into the specified distributions (all if none given) from other distributions in the same repository.  See
              the description of conf/pulls below.

       checkpull [ codenames ]
              Same like pull, but will show what it will change instead of actually changing it.

       dumppull [ codenames ]
              Same like checkpull, but less suiteable for humans and more suitable for computers.

       includedeb codename .deb-filename
              Include the given binary Debian package (.deb) in the specified distribution, applying override information and guessing all  values
              not given and guessable.

       includeudeb codename .udeb-filename
              Same like includedeb, but for .udeb files.

       includedsc codename .dsc-filename
              Include  the  given  Debian source package (.dsc, including other files like .orig.tar.gz, .tar.gz and/or .diff.gz) in the specified
              distribution, applying override information and guessing all values not given and guessable.

              Note that .dsc files do not contain section or priority, but the Sources.gz file needs them.  reprepro tries to parse .diff and .tar
              files  for it, but is only able to resolve easy cases.  If reprepro fails to extract those automatically, you have to either specify
              a DscOverride or give them via -S and -P

       include codename .changes-filename
              Include in the specified distribution all packages found and suitable in the .changes file, applying override  information  guessing
              all values not given and guessable.

       processincoming rulesetname [.changes-file]
              Scan  an  incoming  directory  and process the .changes files found there.  If a filename is supplied, processing is limited to that
              file.  rulesetname identifies which rule-set in conf/incoming determines which incoming directory to use and in  what  distributions
              to allow packages into.  See the section about this file for more information.

       check [ codenames ]
              Check if all packages in the specified distributions have all files needed properly registered.

       checkpool [ fast ]
              Check  if  all files believed to be in the pool are actually still there and have the known md5sum. When fast is specified md5sum is
              not checked.

       collectnewchecksums
              Calculate all supported checksums for all files in the pool.  (Versions prior to 3.3 did only store md5sums,  3.3  added  sha1,  3.5
              added sha256).

       translatelegacychecksums
              Remove  the  legacy  files.db file after making sure all information is also found in the new checksums.db file.  (Alternatively you
              can call collecnewchecksums and remove the file on your own.)

       rereference
              Forget which files are needed and recollect this information.

       dumpreferences
              Print out which files are marked to be needed by whom.

       dumpunreferenced
              Print a list of all filed believed to be in the pool, that are not known to be needed.

       deleteunreferenced
              Remove all known files (and forget them) in the pool not marked to be needed by anything.

       deleteifunreferenced [ filekeys ]
              Remove the given files (and forget them) in the pool if they are not marked to be used by anything.  If no  command  line  arguments
              are  given,  stdin  is  read  and  every  line  treated  as  one filekey.  This is mostly useful together with --keepunreferenced in
              conf/options or in situations where one does not want to run deleteunreferenced, which removes all files eligible to be deleted with
              this command.

       reoverride [ codenames ]
              Reapply the override files to the given distributions (Or only parts thereof given by -A,-C or -T).

              Note: only the control information is changed. Changing a section to a value, that would cause another component to be guessed, will
              not cause any warning.

       redochecksums [ codenames ]
              Readd the information about file checksums to the package indices.

              Usually the package's control information is created at inclusion time or imported from some remote source and  not  changed  later.
              This command modifies it to readd missing checksum types.

              Only checksums already known are used.  To update known checkums about files run collectnewchecksums first.

       dumptracks [ codenames ]
              Print out all information about tracked source packages in the given distributions.

       retrack [ codenames ]
              Recreate  a tracking database for the specified distributions.  This contains ouf of three steps.  First all files marked as part of
              a source package are set to unused.  Then all files actually used are marked as thus.  Finally tidytracks is  called  remove  every‐
              thing no longer needed with the new information about used files.

              (This  behaviour,  though  a bit longsome, keeps even files only kept because of tracking mode keep and files not otherwise used but
              kept due to includechanges or its relatives.  Before version 3.0.0 such files were lost by running retrack).

       removealltracks [ codenames ]
              Removes all source package tracking information for the given distributions.

       removetrack   codename   sourcename   version
              Remove the trackingdata of the given version of a given sourcepackage from a given distribution. This also  removes  the  references
              for all used files.

       tidytracks [ codenames ]
              Check all source package tracking information for the given distributions for files no longer to keep.

       copy destination-codename source-codename packages...
              Copy  the given packages from one distribution to another.  The packages are copied verbatim, no override files are consulted.  Only
              components and architectures present in the source distribution are copied.

       copysrc destination-codename source-codename source-package [versions]
              look at each package (where package means, as usual, every package be it dsc, deb or udeb) in the distribution specified by  source-
              codename and identifies the relevant source package for each.  All packages matching the specified source-package name (and any ver‐
              sion if specified) are copied to the destination-codename distribution.  The packages are copied verbatim,  no  override  files  are
              consulted.  Only components and architectures present in the source distribution are copied.

       copymatched destination-codename source-codename glob
              Copy packages matching the given glob (see listmatched).

              The  packages are copied verbatim, no override files are consulted.  Only components and architectures present in the source distri‐
              bution are copied.

       copyfilter destination-codename source-codename formula
              Copy packages matching the given formula (see listfilter).  (all versions if no version is specified).  The packages are copied ver‐
              batim, no override files are consulted.  Only components and architectures present in the source distribution are copied.

       restore codename snapshot packages...

       restoresrc codename snapshot source-epackage [versions]

       restorefilter destination-codename snapshot formula
              Like  the  copy commands, but do not copy from another distribution, but from a snapshot generated with gensnapshot.  Note that this
              blindly trusts the contents of the files in your dists/ directory and does no checking.

       clearvanished
              Remove all package databases that no longer appear in conf/distributions.  If --delete is specified, it will not stop if  there  are
              still  packages  left.   Even without --delete it will unreference files still marked as needed by this target.  (Use --keepunrefer‐
              enced to not delete them if that was the last reference.)

              Do not forget to remove all exported package indices manually.

       gensnapshot   codename   directoryname
              Generate a snapshot of the distribution specified by codename in the directory dists/codename/snapshots/directoryname/ and reference
              all needed files in the pool as needed by that.  No Content files are generated and no export hooks are run.

              Note that there is currently no automated way to remove that snapshot again (not even clearvanished will unlock the referenced files
              after the distribution itself vanished).  You will have to remove the directory yourself  and  tell  reprepro  to  _removereferences
              s=codename=directoryname before deleteunreferenced will delete the files from the pool locked by this.

              To access such a snapshot with apt, add something like the following to your sources.list file:
              deb method://as/without/snapshot codename/snapshots/name main

       rerunnotifiers [ codenames ]
              Run all external scripts specified in the Log: options of the specified distributions.

       build-needing codename architecture [ glob ]
              List source packages (matching glob) that likely need a build on the given architecture.

              List  all source package in the given distribution without a binary package of the given architecture built from that version of the
              source, without a .changes or .log file for the given architecture, with an Architecture field including any, os-any (with os  being
              the  part  before  the hyphen in the architecture or linux if there is no hypen) or the architecture and at least one package in the
              Binary field not yet available.

              If instead of architecture the term any is used, all architectures are iterated and the architecture is printed as fourth  field  in
              every line.

              If  the  architecture  is all, then only source packages with an Architecture field including all are considered (i.e. as above with
              real architectures but any does not suffice).  Note that dpkg-dev << 1.16.1 does not both set any and all so source packages  build‐
              ing both architecture dependent and independent packages will never show up unless built with a new enough dpkg-source).

       translatefilelists
              Translate the file list cache within db/contents.cache.db into the new format used since reprepro 3.0.0.

              Make sure you have at least half of the space of the current db/contents.cache.db file size available in that partition.

       flood distribution [architecture]
              For  each  architecture  of  distribution (or for the one specified) add architecture all packages from other architectures (but the
              same component or packagetype) under the following conditions:

               Packages are only upgraded, never downgraded.
               If there is a package not being architecture all, then architecture all packages of the same source from the  same  source  version
              are preferred over those that have no such binary sibling.
               Otherwise the package with the highest version wins.

              You  can restrict with architectures are looked for architecture all packages using -A and which components/packagetypes are flooded
              by -C/-T as usual.

              There are mostly two use cases for this command: If you added an new architecture to an distribution and want to copy all  architec‐
              ture  all  packages  to it.  Or if you included some architecture all packages only to some architectures using -A to avoid breaking
              the other architectures for which the binary packages were still missing and now want to copy it to those  architectures  were  they
              are unlikely to break something (because a newbinary is already available).

       unusedsources [distributions]
              List all source packages for which no binary package build from them is found.

       sourcemissing [distributions]
              List all binary packages for which no source package is found (the source package must be in the same distribution, but source pack‐
              ages only kept by package tracking is enough).

       reportcruft [distributions]
              List all source package versions that either have a source package and no longer a binary package or binary  packages  left  without
              source  package  in  the index. (Unless sourcemissing also list packages where the source package in only in the pool due to enabled
              tracking but no longer in the index).

       sizes [ codenames ]
              List the size of all packages in the distributions specified or in all distributions.

              Each row contains 4 numbers, each being a number of bytes in a set of  packages,  which  are:  The  packages  in  this  distribution
              (including  anything  only  kept  because  of tracking), the packages only in this distribution (anything in this distribution and a
              snapshot of this distribution counts as only in this distribution), the packages in this distribution and its snapshots,  the  pack‐
              ages only in this distribution or its snapshots.

              If  more than one distribution is selected, also list a sum of those (in which 'Only' means only in selected ones, and not only only
              in one of the selected ones).

       repairdescriptions [ codenames ]
              Look for binary packages only having a short description and try to get the long description from the .deb file (and also  remove  a
              possible Description-md5 in this case).

   internal commands
       These  are  hopefully  never needed, but allow manual intervention.  WARNING: Is is quite easy to get into an inconsistent and/or unfixable
       state.

       _detect [ filekeys ]
              Look for the files, which filekey is given as argument or as a line of the input (when run without arguments), and  calculate  their
              md5sum  and  add  them to the list of known files.  (Warning: this is a low level operation, no input validation or normalization is
              done.)

       _forget [ filekeys ]
              Like _detect but remove the given filekey from the list of known files.  (Warning: this is a low level operation, no  input  valida‐
              tion or normalization is done.)

       _listmd5sums
              Print a list of all known files and their md5sums.

       _listchecksums
              Print a list of all known files and their recorded checksums.

       _addmd5sums
              alias for the newer

       _addchecksums
              Add information of known files (without any check done) in the strict format of _listchecksums output (i.e. don't dare to use a sin‐
              gle space anywhere more than needed).

       _dumpcontents identifier
              Printout all the stored information of the specified part of the repository. (Or in other words, the content the corresponding Pack‐
              ages or Sources file would get)

       _addreference filekey identifier
              Manually mark filekey to be needed by identifier

       _addreferences identifier [ filekeys ]
              Manually mark one or more filekeys to be needed by identifier.  If no command line arguments are given, stdin is read and every line
              treated as one filekey.

       _removereferences identifier
              Remove all references what is needed by identifier.

       __extractcontrol .deb-filename
              Look what reprepro believes to be the content of the control file of the specified .deb-file.

       __extractfilelist .deb-filename
              Look what reprepro believes to be the list of files of the specified .deb-file.

       _fakeemptyfilelist filekey
              Insert an empty filelist for filekey. This is a evil hack around broken .deb files that cannot be read by reprepro.

       _addpackage codenam filename packages...
              Add packages from the specified filename to part specified by -C -A and -T of the specified distribution.  Very strange  things  can
              happen if you use it improperly.

       __dumpuncompressors
              List what compressions format can be uncompressed and how.

       __uncompress format compressed-file uncompressed-file
              Use builtin or external uncompression to uncompress the specified file of the specified format into the specified target.

       _listconfidentifiers identifier [ distributions... ]
              Print - one per line - all identifiers of subdatabases as derived from the configuration.  If a list of distributions is given, only
              identifiers of those are printed.

       _listdbidentifiers identifier [ distributions... ]
              Print - one per line - all identifiers of subdatabases in the current database.  This will be a subset of the ones printed by _list‐
              confidentifiers  or  most  commands  but clearvanished will refuse to run, and depending on the database compatibility version, will
              include all those if reprepro was run since the config was last changed.

CONFIG FILES
       reprepo uses three config files, which are searched in the directory specified with --confdir or in the conf/ subdirectory of the basedir.

       If a file options exists, it is parsed line by line.  Each line can be the long name of a command line option  (without  the  --)  plus  an
       argument,  where  possible.   Those  are handled as if they were command line options given before (and thus lower priority than) any other
       command line option.  (and also lower priority than any environment variable).

       To allow command line options to override options file options, most boolean options also have a corresponding form starting with --no.

       (The only exception is when the path to look for config files changes, the options file will only opened once  and  of  course  before  any
       options within the options file are parsed.)

       The file distributions is always needed and describes what distributions to manage, while updates is only needed when syncing with external
       repositories and pulls is only needed when syncing with repositories in the same reprepro database.

       The last three are in the format control files in Debian are in, i.e. paragraphs separated by empty lines consisting of fields. Each  field
       consists of a fieldname, followed by a colon, possible whitespace and the data. A field ends with a newline not followed by a space or tab.

       Lines starting with # as first character are ignored, while in other lines the # character and everything after it till the newline charac‐
       ter are ignored.

       A paragraph can also consist of only a single field "!include:" which causes the named file (relative to confdir unless starting  with  ~/,
       +b/, +c/ or / ) to be read as if it was found at this place.

       Each  of the three files or a file included as described above can also be a directory, in which case all files it contains with a filename
       ending in .conf and not starting with .  are read.

   conf/distributions
       Codename
              This required field is the unique identifier of a distribution and used as directory name within dists/ It is also copied  into  the
              Release files.

              Note  that this name is not supposed to change.  You most likely never ever want a name like testing or stable here (those are suite
              names and supposed to point to another distribution later).

       Suite  This optional field is simply copied into the Release files. In Debian it contains names like stable, testing or unstable. To create
              symlinks from the Suite to the Codename, use the createsymlinks command of reprepro.

       FakeComponentPrefix
              If  this  field  is present, its argument is added - separated by a slash -  before every Component written to the main Release file
              (unless the component already starts with it), and removed from the end of the Codename and Suite fields in that file.   Also  if  a
              component starts with it, its directory in the dists dir is shortened by this.
              So
               Codename: bla/updates
               Suite: foo/updates
               FakeComponentPrefix: updates
               Components: main bad
               will create a Release file with
               Codename: bla
               Suite: foo
               Components: updates/main updates/bad
               in it, but otherwise nothing is changed, while
               Codename: bla/updates
               Suite: foo/updates
               FakeComponentPrefix: updates
               Components: updates/main updates/bad
               will also create a Release file with
               Codename: bla
               Suite: foo
               Components: updates/main updates/bad
               but the packages will actually be in the components updates/main and updates/bad, most likely causing the same file using duplicate
              storage space.

              This makes the distribution look more like Debian's security archive, thus work around problems with apt's workarounds for that.

       AlsoAcceptFor
              A list of distribution names.  When a .changes file is told to be included into this distribution with the include command  and  the
              distribution  header of that file is neither the codename, nor the suite name, nor any name from the list, a wrongdistribution error
              is generated.  The process_incoming command will also use this field, see the description of Allow and Default from the  conf/incom‐
              ing file for more information.

       Version
              This optional field is simply copied into the Release files.

       Origin This optional field is simply copied into the Release files.

       Label  This optional field is simply copied into the Release files.

       NotAutomatic
              This  optional field is simply copied into the Release files.  (The value is handled as an arbitrary string, though anything but yes
              does not make much sense right now.)

       ButAutomaticUpgrades
              This optional field is simply copied into the Release files.  (The value is handled as an arbitrary string, though anything but  yes
              does not make much sense right now.)

       Description
              This optional field is simply copied into the Release files.

       Architectures
              This  required  field  lists  the  binary architectures within this distribution and if it contains source (i.e. if there is an item
              source in this line this Distribution has source. All other items specify things to be put after "binary-" to form  directory  names
              and be checked against "Architecture:" fields.)

              This  will  also  be  copied into the Release files. (With exception of the source item, which will not occur in the topmost Release
              file whether it is present here or not)

       Components
              This required field lists the component of a distribution. See GUESSING for rules which component  packages  are  included  into  by
              default. This will also be copied into the Release files.

       UDebComponents
              Components with a debian-installer subhierarchy containing .udebs.  (E.g. simply "main")

       Update When  this  field  is  present, it describes which update rules are used for this distribution. There also can be a magic rule minus
              ("-"), see below.

       Pull   When this field is present, it describes which pull rules are used for this distribution.  Pull rules are like Update rules, but get
              their stuff from other distributions and not from external sources.  See the description for conf/pulls.

       SignWith
              When  this  field  is  present, a Release.gpg file will be generated.  If the value is "yes" or "default", the default key of gpg is
              used.  If the field starts with an exlamation mark ("!"), the given script is executed to do the signing.  Otherwise the value  will
              be given to libgpgme to determine to key to use.

              If there are problems with signing, you can try
              gpg --list-secret-keys value
              to  see  how  gpg could interprete the value.  If that command does not list any keys or multiple ones, try to find some other value
              (like the keyid), that gpg can more easily associate with a unique key.

              If this key has a passphrase, you need to use gpg-agent or the insecure option --ask-passphrase.

              A '!' hook script is looked for in the confdir, unless it starts with ~/, ./, +b/, +o/, +c/ or / .  Is gets three command line argu‐
              ments:  The  filename  to  sign,  an empty argument or the filename to create with an inline signature (i.e. InRelease) and an empty
              argument or the filename to create an detached signature (i.e. Release.gpg).  The script may generate  no  Release.gpg  file  if  it
              choses  to  (then  the  repository  will look like unsigned for older clients), but generating empty files is not allowed.  Reprepro
              waits for the script to finish and will abort the exporting of the distribution this signing is part of unless the  scripts  returns
              normally with exit code 0.  Using a space after ! is recommended to avoid incompatibilities with possible future extensions.

       DebOverride
              When this field is present, it describes the override file used when including .deb files.

       UDebOverride
              When this field is present, it describes the override file used when including .udeb files.

       DscOverride
              When this field is present, it describes the override file used when including .dsc files.

       DebIndices, UDebIndices, DscIndices
              Choose what kind of Index files to export. The first part describes what the Index file shall be called.  The second argument deter‐
              mines the name of a Release file to generate or not to generate if missing.  Then at least one of ".", ".gz", ".xz" or ".bz2" speci‐
              fying  whether  to  generate  uncompressed output, gzipped output, bzip2ed output or any combination.  (bzip2 is only available when
              compiled with bzip2 support, so it might not be available when you compiled it on your own, same for xz and liblzma).  If  an  argu‐
              ment  not  starting  with dot follows, it will be executed after all index files are generated.  (See the examples for what argument
              this gets).  The default is:
              DebIndices: Packages Release . .gz
              UDebIndices: Packages . .gz
              DscIndices: Sources Release .gz

       ExportOptions
              Options to modify how and if exporting is done:
              noexport Never export this distribution.  That means there will be no directory below dists/ generated and the distribution is  only
              useful to copy packages to other distributions.
              keepunknown  Ignore  unknown  files  and directories in the exported directory.  This is currently the only available option and the
              default, but might change in the future, so it can already be requested explicitely.

       Contents
              Enable the creation of Contents files listing all the files within the binary packages of a distribution.  (Which is quite slow, you
              have been warned).

              In  earlier  versions,  the first argument was a rate at which to extract file lists.  As this did not work and was no longer easily
              possible after some factorisation, this is no longer supported.

              The arguments of this field is a space separated list of options.  If there is a udebs keyword, .udebs are also listed  (in  a  file
              called  uContents-architecture.)  If there is a nodebs keyword, .debs are not listed.  (Only useful together with udebs) If there is
              at least one of the keywords ., .gz, .xz and/or .bz2, the Contents files are written uncompressed, gzipped and/or bzip2ed instead of
              only gzipped.

              If  there  is a percomponent then one Contents-arch file per component is created.  If there is a allcomponents then one global Con‐
              tents-arch file is generated.  If both are given, both are created.  If none of both is specified  then  percomponent  is  taken  as
              default (earlier versions had other defaults).

              The  switches  compatsymlink or nocompatsymlink (only possible if allcomponents was not specified explicitly) control whether a com‐
              patibility symlink is created so old versions of apt-file looking for the component independent filenames at least see the  contents
              of the first component.

              Unless allcomponents is given, compatsymlinks currently is the default, but that will change in some future (current estimate: after
              wheezy was released)

       ContentsArchitectures
              Limit generation of Contents files to the architectures given.  If this field is not there, all  architectures  are  processed.   An
              empty field means no architectures are processed, thus not very useful.

       ContentsComponents
              Limit what components are processed for the Contents-arch files to the components given.  If this field is not there, all components
              are processed.  An empty field is equivalent to specify nodebs in the Contents field, while a non-empty  field  overrides  a  nodebs
              there.

       ContentsUComponents
              Limit  what  components  are processed for the uContents files to the components given.  If this field is not there and there is the
              udebs keyword in the Contents field, all .udebs of all components are put in the uContents.arch files.  If this field is  not  there
              and  there is no udebs keyword in the Contents field, no uContents-arch files are generated at all.  A non-empty fields implies gen‐
              eration of uContents-arch files (just like the udebs keyword in the Contents field), while an empty  one  causes  no  uContents-arch
              files to be generated.

       Uploaders
              Specifies a file (relative to confdir if not starting with ~/, +b/, +c/ or / ) to specify who is allowed to upload packages. Without
              this there are no limits, and this file can be ignored via --ignore=uploaders.  See the section UPLOADERS FILES below.

       Tracking
              Enable the (experimental) tracking of source packages.  The argument list needs to contain exactly one of the following:
              keep Keeps all files of a given source package, until that is deleted explicitly via removetrack. This is currently the only  possi‐
              bility to keep older packages around when all indices contain newer files.
              all Keep all files belonging to a given source package until the last file of it is no longer used within that distribution.
              minimal  Remove files no longer included in the tracked distribution.  (Remove changes, logs and includebyhand files once no file is
              in any part of the distribution).
              And any number of the following (or none):
              includechanges Add the .changes file to the tracked files of a source package.  Thus it is also put into the pool.
              includebyhand Add byhand and raw-* files to the tracked files and thus in the pool.
              includelogs Add log files to the tracked files and thus in the pool.  (Not that putting log files in changes  files  is  a  reprepro
              extension not found in normal changes files)
              embargoalls Not yet implemented.
              keepsources Even when using minimal mode, do not remove source files until no file is needed any more.
              needsources Not yet implemented.

       Log    Specify  a  file  to log additions and removals of this distribution into and/or external scripts to call when something is added or
              removed.  The rest of the Log: line is the filename, every following line (as usual, have to begin with a single space) the name  of
              a  script  to  call.   The name of the script may be preceded with options of the form --type=(dsc|deb|udeb), --architecture=name or
              --component=name to only call the script for some parts of the distribution.  An script with argument --changes  is  called  when  a
              .changes  file was accepted by include or processincoming (and with other arguments).  Both type of scripts can have a --via=command
              specified, in which case it is only called when caused by reprepro command command.

              For information how it is called and some examples take a look at manual.html in reprepro's source or /usr/share/doc/reprepro/

              If the filename for the log files does not start with a slash, it is relative to the directory specified with --logdir, the  scripts
              are relative to --confdir unless starting with ~/, +b/, +c/ or /.

       ValidFor
              If  this  field  exists,  an Valid-Until field is put into generated Release files for this distribution with an date as much in the
              future as the argument specifies.

              The argument has to be an number followed by one of the units d, m or y, where d means days, m means 31 days and y means  365  days.
              So ValidFor: 1m 11 d causes the generation of a Valid-Until: header in Release files that points 42 days into the future.

       ReadOnly
              Disallow all modifications of this distribution or its directory in dists/codename (with the exception of snapshot subdirectories).

       ByHandHooks
              This species hooks to call for handling byhand/raw files by processincoming (and in future versions perhaps by include).

              Each  line consists out of 4 arguments: A glob pattern for the section (clasically byhand, though Ubuntu uses raw-*), a glob pattern
              for the priority (not usually used), and a glob pattern for the filename.

              The 4th argument is the script to be called when all of the above match.  It gets 5 arguments: the codename of the distribution, the
              section  (usually byhand), the priority (usually only -), the filename in the changes file and the full filename (with processincom‐
              ing in the secure TempDir).

   conf/updates
       Name   The name of this update-upstream as it can be used in the Update field in conf/distributions.

       Method An URI as one could also give it apt, e.g.  http://ftp.debian.de/debian which is simply given to the corresponding  apt-get  method.
              (So either apt-get has to be installed, or you have to point with --methoddir to a place where such methods are found.

       Fallback
              (Still  experimental:) A fallback URI, where all files are tried that failed the first one. They are given to the same method as the
              previous URI (e.g. both http://), and the fallback-server must have everything at the same place.  No  recalculation  is  done,  but
              single files are just retried from this location.

       Config This  can  contain  any number of lines, each in the format apt-get --option would expect. (Multiple lines ‐ as always ‐ marked with
              leading spaces).

       For example: Config: Acquire::Http::Proxy=http://proxy.yours.org:8080

       From   The name of another update rule this rules derives from.  The rule containing the From may not contain Method, Fallback  or  Config.
              All  other  fields are used from the rule referenced in From, unless found in this containing the From.  The rule referenced in From
              may itself contain a From.  Reprepro will only assume two remote index files are the same, if both get their Method information from
              the same rule.

       Suite  The  suite  to  update  from.  If this is not present, the codename of the distribution using this one is used. Also "*/whatever" is
              replaced by "<codename>/whatever"

       Components
              The components to update. Each item can be either the name of a component or a pair of a upstream component and  a  local  component
              separated with ">". (e.g. "main>all contrib>all non-free>notall")

              If this field is not there, all components from the distribution to update are tried.

              An empty field means no source or .deb packages are updated by this rule, but only .udeb packages, if there are any.

              A  rule  might  list  components  not  available  in all distributions using this rule. In this case unknown components are silently
              ignored.  (Unless you start reprepro with the --fast option, it will warn about components unusable in all distributions using  that
              rule.  As  exceptions,  unusable components called none are never warned about, for compatibility with versions prior to 3.0.0 where
              and empty field had a different meaning.)

       Architectures
              The architectures to update. If omitted all from the distribution to update from. (As with components, you can use ">"  to  download
              from  one  architecture  and  add  into another one. (This only determine in which Package list they land, it neither overwrites the
              Architecture line in its description, nor the one in the filename determined from this one. In other words, it is no  really  useful
              without additional filtering))

       UDebComponents
              Like Components but for the udebs.

       VerifyRelease
              Download  the  Release.gpg  file  and  check if it is a signature of the Releasefile with the key given here. (In the Format as "gpg
              --with-colons --list-key" prints it, i.e. the last 16 hex digits of the fingerprint) Multiple keys can be  specified  by  separating
              them  with  a "|" sign. Then finding a signature from one of the will suffice.  To allow revoked or expired keys, add a "!" behind a
              key.  (but to accept such signatures, the appropriate --ignore is also needed).  To also allow subkeys of a specified key, add a "+"
              behind a key.

       IgnoreRelease: yes
              If  this  is  present,  no  InRelease  or  Release file will be downloaded and thus the md5sums of the other index files will not be
              checked.

       GetInRelease: no
              IF this is present, no InRelease file is downloaded but only Release (and Release.gpg ) are tried.

       Flat   If this field is in an update rule, it is supposed to be a flat repository, i.e. a repository without a dists dir and no subdirecto‐
              ries  for  the  index files.  (If the corresponding sources.list line has the suite end with a slash, then you might need this one.)
              The argument for the Flat: field is the Component to put those packages into.  No Components or UDebComponents fields are allowed in
              a flat update rule.  If the Architecture field has any > items, the part left of the ">" is ignored.
              For example the sources.list line
               deb http://cran.r-project.org/bin/linux/debian etch-cran/
              would translate to
               Name: R
               Method: http://cran.r-project.org/bin/linux/debian
               Suite: etch-cran
               Flat: whatevercomponentyoudlikethepackagesin

       IgnoreHashes
              This  directive tells reprepro to not check the listed hashes in the downloaded Release file (and only in the Release file).  Possi‐
              ble values are currently md5, sha1 and sha256.

              Note that this does not speed anything up in any measurable way. The only reason to specify this if the Release file of the  distri‐
              bution you want to mirror from uses a faulty algorithm implementation.  Otherwise you will gain nothing and only lose security.

       FilterFormula
              This  can  be  a formula to specify which packages to accept from this source. The format is misusing the parser intended for Depen‐
              dency lines. To get only architecture all packages use "architecture (== all)", to get only at least important packages use  "prior‐
              ity (==required) | priority (==important)".

              See the description of the listfilter command for the semantics of formulas.

       FilterList, FilterSrcList
              These take at least two arguments: The first one is the default action when something is not found in the list, then a list of file‐
              names (relative to --confdir, if not starting with ~/, +b/, +c/ or / ) in the format of  dpkg  --get-selections  and  only  packages
              listed  in  there as install or that are already there and are listed with upgradeonly will be installed. Things listed as deinstall
              or purge will be ignored.  Packages having supersede will not be installed but instead cause the removal of packages  with  strictly
              smaller  version  (i.e.  if  a  package would be replaced by this package if this was install, it will be removed instead and no new
              package being installed).  Things listed with warning are also ignored, but a warning message is printed to stderr.  A package being
              hold will not be upgraded but also not downgraded or removed by previous delete rules.  To abort the whole upgrade/pull if a package
              is available, use error.  Instead of a keyword you can also use "= version" which is treated like install if the version matches and
              like no entry if it does not match.  Only one such entry per package is currently supported and the version is currently compared as
              string.

              If there is both FilterList and FilterSrcList then the first is used for .deb and .udeb and the second for .dsc packages.  If  there
              is only FilterList that is applied to everything.  If there is only FilterSrcList that is applied to everything, too, but the source
              package name (and source version) is used to do the lookup.

       OmitExtraSourceOnly
              This field controls whether source packages with Extra-Source-Only set are ignore  when  getting  source  packages.   Withouth  this
              option  or  if it is true, those source packages are ignored, while if set to no or false, those source packages are also condidates
              if no other filter excludes them.  (The default of true will likely change once reprepro supports multiple versions of a package  or
              has other means to keep the source packages around).

       ListHook
              If  this  is given, it is executed for all downloaded index files with the downloaded list as first and a filename that will be used
              instead of this. (e.g. "ListHook: /bin/cp" works but does nothing.)

              If a file will be read multiple times, it is processed multiple times,  with  the  environment  variables  REPREPRO_FILTER_CODENAME,
              REPREPRO_FILTER_PACKAGETYPE, REPREPRO_FILTER_COMPONENT and REPREPRO_FILTER_ARCHITECTURE set to the where this file will be added and
              REPREPRO_FILTER_PATTERN to the name of the update rule causing it.

       ListShellHook
              This is like ListHook, but the whole argument is given to the shell as argument, and the input and output file are stdin and stdout.

              i.e.:
              ListShellHook: cat
              works but does nothing but useless use of a shell and cat, while
              ListShellHook: grep-dctrl -X -S apt -o -X -S dpkg || [ $? -eq 1 ]
              will limit the update rule to packages from the specified source packages.

       DownloadListsAs
              The arguments of this field specify which index files reprepro will download.

              Allowed values are ., .gz, .bz2, .lzma, .xz, .lz, .diff, force.gz, force.bz2, force.lzma, force.xz, force.lz, and force.diff.

              Reprepro will try the first supported variant in the list given: Only compressions compiled in or  for  which  an  uncompressor  was
              found are used.  Unless the value starts with force., it is only tried if if is found in the Release or InRelease file.

              The  default  value  is  .diff .xz .lzma .bz2 .gz ., i.e.  download Packages.diff if listed in the Release file, otherwise or if not
              usable download .xz if listed in the Release file and there is a way to uncompress it, then .lzma if usable, then  .bz2  if  usable,
              then .gz and then uncompressed).

              Note  there  is no way to see if an uncompressed variant of the file is available (as the Release file always lists their checksums,
              even if not there), so putting '.' anywhere but as the last argument can mean trying to download a file that does not exist.

              Together with IgnoreRelease reprepro will download the first in this list that could be unpacked (i.e. force is always assumed)  and
              the default value is .gz .bzip2 . .lzma .xz.

   conf/pulls
       This  file  contains  the rules for pulling packages from one distribution to another.  While this can also be done with update rules using
       the file or copy method and using the exported indices of that other distribution, this way is faster.  It also ensures the  current  files
       are used and no copies are made.  (This also leads to the limitation that pulling from one component to another is not possible.)

       Each rule consists out of the following fields:

       Name   The name of this pull rule as it can be used in the Pull field in conf/distributions.

       From   The codename of the distribution to pull packages from.

       Components
              The components of the distribution to get from.

              If this field is not there, all components from the distribution to  update are tried.

              A  rule  might  list  components  not  available  in all distributions using this rule. In this case unknown components are silently
              ignored.  (Unless you start reprepro with the --fast option, it will warn about components unusable in all distributions using  that
              rule.   As  exception,  unusable components called none are never warned about, for compatibility with versions prior to 3.0.0 where
              and empty field had a different meaning.)

       Architectures
              The architectures to update.  If omitted all from the distribution to pull from.  As in conf/updates, you can use  ">"  to  download
              from  one  architecture  and  add into another one. (And again, only useful with filtering to avoid packages not architecture all to
              migrate).

       UDebComponents
              Like Components but for the udebs.

       FilterFormula

       FilterList

       FilterSrcList
              The same as with update rules.

OVERRIDE FILES
       The format of override files used by reprepro should resemble the extended ftp-archive format, to be specific it is:

       packagename field name new value

       For example:
       kernel-image-2.4.31-yourorga Section protected/base
       kernel-image-2.4.31-yourorga Priority standard
       kernel-image-2.4.31-yourorga Maintainer That's me <me@localhost>
       reprepro Priority required

       All fields of a given package will be replaced by the new value specified in the override file with the exception of special fields  start‐
       ing  with  a  dollar  sign  ($).   While the field name is compared case-insensitive, it is copied in exactly the form in the override file
       there.  (Thus I suggest to keep to the exact case it is normally found in index files in case some other tool confuses  them.)   More  than
       copied is the Section header (unless -S is supplied), which is also used to guess the component (unless -C is there).

       Some values like Package, Filename, Size or MD5sum are forbidden, as their usage would severly confuse reprepro.

       As  an extension reprepro also supports patterns instead of packagenames.  If the package name contains '*', '[' or '?', it is considered a
       pattern and applied to each package that is not matched by any non-pattern override nor by any previous pattern.

       Fieldnames starting with a dollar ($) are not be placed in the exported control data but have special meaning.   Unknown  ones  are  loudly
       ignored.  Special fields are:

        $Component:  includedeb, includedsc, include and processincoming will put the package in the component given as value (unless itself over‐
       ridden with -C).  Note that the proper way to specify the component is by setting the section field and  using  this  extension  will  most
       likely confuse people and/or tools.

        $Delete:  the  value is treated a fieldname and fields of that name are removed.  (This way one can remove fields previously added without
       removing and readding the package.  And fields already included in the package can be removed, too).

   conf/incoming
       Every chunk is a rule set for the process_incoming command.  Possible fields are:

       Name   The name of the rule-set, used as argument to the scan command to specify to use this rule.

       IncomingDir
              The Name of the directory to scan for .changes files.

       TempDir
              A directory where the files listed in the processed .changes files are copied into before they are read.  You can  avoid  some  copy
              operatations by placing this directory within the same moint point the pool hierarchy is (at least partially) in.

       LogDir A directory where .changes files, .log files and otherwise unused .byhand files are stored upon procession.

       Allow  Each  argument  is  either a pair name1>name2 or simply name which is short for name>name.  Each name2 must identify a distribution,
              either by being Codename, a unique Suite, or a unique AlsoAcceptFor from conf/distributions.  Each upload has each item in its  Dis‐
              tribution: header compared first to last with each name1 in the rules and is put in the first one accepting this package.  e.g.:
              Allow: local unstable>sid
              or
              Allow: stable>security-updates stable>proposed-updates
              (Note  that  this  makes only sense if Multiple is set to true or if there are people only allowed to upload to proposed-updates but
              not to security-updates).

       Default distribution
              Every upload not put into any other distribution because of an Allow argument is put into distribution if that accepts it.

       Multiple
              Old form of Options: multiple_distributions.

       Options
              A list of options
              multiple_distributions
              Allow including a upload in multiple distributions.

              If a .changes file lists multiple distributions, then reprepro will start with the first name given, check all  Accept  and  Default
              options till it finds a distribution this upload can go into.

              If this found no distribution or if this option was given, reprepro will then do the same with the second distribution name given in
              the .changes file and so on.
              limit_arch_all
              If an upload contains binaries from some architecture and architecture all packages, the architecture all packages are only put into
              the architectures within this upload.  Useful to combine with the flood command.

       Permit A list of options to allow things otherwise causing errors:
              unused_files
              Do not stop with error if there are files listed in the .changes file if it lists files not belonging to any package in it.
              older_version
              Ignore a package not added because there already is a strictly newer version available instead of treating this as an error.
              unlisted_binaries
              Do not abort with an error if a .changes file contains .deb files that are not listed in the Binaries header.

       Cleanup options
              A list of options to cause more files in the incoming directory to be deleted:
              unused_files
              If there is unused_files in Permit then also delete those files when the package is deleted after successful processing.
              on_deny
              If  a  .changes file is denied processing because of missing signatures or allowed distributions to be put in, delete it and all the
              files it references.
              on_error
              If a .changes file causes errors while processing, delete it and the files it references.

              Note that allowing cleanup in publically accessible incoming queues allows a denial of service by sending in .changes files deleting
              other peoples files before they are completed.  Especially when .changes files are handled directly (e.g. by inoticoming).

       MorgueDir
              If files are to be deleted by Cleanup, they are instead moved to a subdirectory of the directory given as value to this field.  This
              directory has to be on the same partition as the incoming directory and files are moved (i.e. owner and permission  stay  the  same)
              and never copied.

UPLOADERS FILES
       These  files specified by the Uploaders header in the distribution definition as explained above describe what key a .changes file as to be
       signed with to be included in that distribution.

       Empty lines and lines starting with a hash are ignored, every other line must be of one of the following nine forms or  an  include  direc‐
       tive:

       allow condition by anybody
              which allows everyone to upload packages matching condition,

       allow condition by unsigned
              which allows everything matching that has no pgp/gpg header,

       allow condition by any key
              which allows everything matching with any valid signature in or

       allow condition by key key-id
              which  allows everything matching signed by this key-id (to be specified without any spaces).  If the key-id ends with a + (plus), a
              signature with a subkey of this primary key also suffices.

              key-id must be a suffix of the id libgpgme uses to identify this key, i.e. a number of hexdigits from the end of the fingerprint  of
              the  key,  but  no  more than what libgpgme uses.  (The maximal number should be what gpg --list-key --with-colons prints, as of the
              time of this writing that is at most 16 hex-digits).

       allow condition by group groupname
              which allows every member of group groupname.  Groups can be manipulated by

       group groupname add key-id
              to add a key-id (see above for details) to this group, or

       group groupname contains groupname
              to add a whole group to a group.

              To avoid warnings in incomplete config files there is also

       group groupname empty
              to declare a group has no members (avoids warnings that it is used without those) and

       group groupname unused
              to declare that a group is not yet used (avoid warnings that it is not used).

       A line starting with include causes the rest of the line to be interpreted as filename, which is opened and processed before  the  rest  of
       the file is processed.

       The only conditions currently supported are:

       *      which means any package,

       source 'name'
              which means any package with source name.  ('*', '?' and '[..]' are treated as in shell wildcards).

       sections 'name'(|'name')*
              matches  an  upload  in which each section matches one of the names given.  As upload conditions are checked very early, this is the
              section listed in the .changes file, not the one from the override file.  (But this might change in the future, if you have the need
              for the one or the other behavior, let me know).

       sections contain 'name'(|'name')*
              The  same,  but  not  all  sections must be from the given set, but at least one source or binary package needs to have one of those
              given.

       binaries 'name'(|'name')*
              matches an upload in which each binary (type deb or udeb) matches one of the names given.

       binaries contain 'name'(|'name')*
              again only at least one instead of all is required.

       architectures 'architecture'(|'name')*
              matches an upload in which each package has only architectures from the given set.  source and all are treated as  unique  architec‐
              tures.  Wildcards are not allowed.

       architectures contain 'architecture'(|'architecture')*
              again only at least one instead of all is required.

       byhand matches an upload with at least one byhand file (i.e. a file with section byhand or raw-something).

       byhand 'section'(|'section')*
              matches  an  upload  with at least one byhand file and all byhand files having a section listed in the list of given section.  (i.e.
              byhand 'byhand'|'raw-*' is currently is the same as byhand).

       distribution 'codename'
              which means any package when it is to be included in codename.  As the uploaders file is given by distribution, this is only  useful
              to reuse a complex uploaders file for multiple distributions.

       Putting not in front of a condition, inverses it's meaning.  For example
       allow not source 'r*' by anybody
       means anybody may upload packages which source name does not start with an 'r'.

       Multiple conditions can be connected with and and or, with or binding stronger (but both weaker than not).  That means
       allow source 'r*' and source '*xxx' or source '*o' by anybody
       is equivalent to
       allow source 'r*xxx' by anybody
       allow source 'r*o' by anybody

       (Other conditions will follow once somebody tells me what restrictions are useful.  Currently planned is only something for architectures).

ERROR IGNORING
       With --ignore on the command line or an ignore line in the options file, the following type of errors can be ignored:

       brokenold (hopefully never seen)
              If  there  are  errors parsing an installed version of package, do not error out, but assume it is older than anything else, has not
              files or no source name.

       brokensignatures
              If a .changes or .dsc file contains at least one invalid signature and no valid signature (not even expired or from  an  expired  or
              revoked key), reprepro assumes the file got corrupted and refuses to use it unless this ignore directive is given.

       brokenversioncmp (hopefully never seen)
              If comparing old and new version fails, assume the new one is newer.

       dscinbinnmu
              If  a .changes file has an explicit Source version that is different the to the version header of the file, than reprepro assumes it
              is binary non maintainer upload (NMU).  In that case, source files are not permitted in .changes files processed by include or  pro‐
              cessincoming.  Adding --ignore=dscinbinnmu allows it for the include command.

       emptyfilenamepart (insecure)
              Allow strings to be empty that are used to construct filenames.  (like versions, architectures, ...)

       extension
              Allow  to  includedeb  files  that  do  not end with .deb, to includedsc files not ending in .dsc and to include files not ending in
              .changes.

       forbiddenchar (insecure)
              Do not insist on Debian policy for package and source names and versions.  Thus allowing all 7-bit characters but slashes  (as  they
              would break the file storage) and things syntactically active (spaces, underscores in filenames in .changes files, opening parenthe‐
              ses in source names of binary packages).  To allow some 8-bit chars additionally, use 8bit additionally.

       8bit (more insecure)
              Allow 8-bit characters not looking like overlong UTF-8 sequences in filenames and things used as  parts  of  filenames.   Though  it
              hopefully  rejects  overlong UTF-8 sequences, there might be other characters your filesystem confuses with special characters, thus
              creating filenames possibly equivalent to /mirror/pool/main/../../../etc/shadow (Which should be safe, as you do not run reprepro as
              root,  do  you?)   or  simply  overwriting your conf/distributions file adding some commands in there. So do not use this if you are
              paranoid, unless you are paranoid enough to have checked the code of your libs, kernel and filesystems.

       ignore (for forward compatibility)
              Ignore unknown ignore types given to --ignore.

       flatandnonflat (only supresses a warning)
              Do not warn about a flat and a non-flat distribution from the same source with the same name when updating.  (Hopefully  never  ever
              needed.)

       malformedchunk (I hope you know what you do)
              Do  not  stop  when  finding  a  line  not starting with a space but no colon(:) in it. These are otherwise rejected as they have no
              defined meaning.

       missingfield (safe to ignore)
              Ignore missing fields in a .changes file that are only checked but not processed.  Those include: Format, Date, Urgency, Maintainer,
              Description, Changes

       missingfile (might be insecure)
              When including a .dsc file from a .changes file, try to get files needed but not listed in the .changes file (e.g. when someone for‐
              got to specify -sa to dpkg-buildpackage) from the directory the .changes file is in instead of erroring  out.   (--delete  will  not
              work with those files, though.)

       spaceonlyline (I hope you know what you do)
              Allow lines containing only (but non-zero) spaces. As these do not separate chunks as thus will cause reprepro to behave unexpected,
              they cause error messages by default.

       surprisingarch
              Do not reject a .changes file containing files for a architecture not listed in the Architecture-header within it.

       surprisingbinary
              Do not reject a .changes file containing .deb files containing packages whose name is not listed in the  "Binary:"  header  of  that
              changes file.

       undefinedtarget (hope you are not using the wrong db directory)
              Do  not stop when the packages.db file contains databases for codename/packagetype/component/architectures combinations that are not
              listed in your distributions file.

              This allows you to temporarily remove some distribution from the config files, without having to remove the packages in it with  the
              clearvanished  command.   You might even temporarily remove single architectures or components, though that might cause inconsisten‐
              cies in some situations.

       undefinedtracking (hope you are not using the wrong db directory)
              Do not stop when the tracking file contains databases for distributions that are not listed in your distributions file.

              This allows you to temporarily remove some distribution from the config files, without having to remove the packages in it with  the
              clearvanished  command.   You might even temporarily disable tracking in some distribution, but that is likely to cause inconsisten‐
              cies in there, if you do not know, what you are doing.

       unknownfield (for forward compatibility)
              Ignore unknown fields in the config files, instead of refusing to run then.

       unusedarch (safe to ignore)
              No longer reject a .changes file containing no files for any of the architectures listed in the Architecture-header within it.

       unusedoption
              Do not complain about command line options not used by the specified action (like --architecture).

       uploaders
              The include command will accept packages that would otherwise been rejected by the uploaders file.

       wrongarchitecture (safe to ignore)
              Do not warn about wrong "Architecture:" lines in downloaded Packages files.  (Note that wrong Architectures are always ignored  when
              getting stuff from flat repostories or importing stuff from one architecture to another).

       wrongdistribution (safe to ignore)
              Do not error out if a .changes file is to be placed in a distribution not listed in that files' Distributions: header.

       wrongsourceversion
              Do not reject a .changes file containing .deb files with a different opinion on what the version of the source package is.
              (Note: reprepro only compares literally here, not by meaning.)

       wrongversion
              Do not reject a .changes file containing .dsc files with a different version.
              (Note: reprepro only compares literally here, not by meaning.)

       expiredkey (I hope you know what you do)
              Accept signatures with expired keys.  (Only if the expired key is explicitly requested).

       expiredsignature (I hope you know what you do)
              Accept expired signatures with expired keys.  (Only if the key is explicitly requested).

       revokedkey (I hope you know what you do)
              Accept signatures with revoked keys.  (Only if the revoked key is explicitly requested).

GUESSING
       When  including  a binary or source package without explicitly declaring a component with -C it will take the first component with the name
       of the section, being prefix to the section, being suffix to the section or having the section as prefix or any. (In this order)

       Thus having specified the components: "main non-free contrib non-US/main non-US/non-free  non-US/contrib"  should  map  e.g.   "non-US"  to
       "non-US/main"  and  "contrib/editors" to "contrib", while having only "main non-free and contrib" as components should map "non-US/contrib"
       to "contrib" and "non-US" to "main".

       NOTE: Always specify main as the first component, if you want things to end up there.

       NOTE: unlike in dak, non-US and non-us are different things...

NOMENCLATURE
       Codename the primary identifier of a given distribution. This are normally things like sarge, etch or sid.

       basename
              the name of a file without any directory information.

       byhand Changes files can have files with section 'byhand' (Debian) or 'raw-' (Ubuntu).  Those files are not packages but other data  gener‐
              ated (usually together with packages) and then uploaded together with this changes files.

              With reprepro those can be stored in the pool next to their packages whith tracking, put in some log directory when using processin‐
              coming, or given to an hook script (currently only possible with processincoming).

       filekey
              the position relative to the outdir.  (as found in "Filename:" in Packages.gz)

       full filename
              the position relative to /

       architecture
              The term like sparc, i386, mips, ... .  To refer to the source packages, source is sometimes also treated as architecture.

       component
              Things like main, non-free and contrib (by policy and some other programs also called section, reprepro follows the naming scheme of
              apt here.)

       section
              Things like base, interpreters, oldlibs and non-free/math (by policy and some other programs also called subsections).

       md5sum The checksum of a file in the format "<md5sum of file> <length of file>"

Some note on updates
   A version is not overwritten with the same version.
       reprepro  will  never  update a package with a version it already has. This would be equivalent to rebuilding the whole database with every
       single upgrade.  To force the new same version in, remove it and then update.  (If files of the packages  changed  without  changing  their
       name,  make sure the file is no longer remembered by reprepro.  Without --keepunreferencedfiled and without errors while deleting it should
       already be forgotten, otherwise a deleteunreferenced or even some __forget might help.)

   The magic delete rule ("-").
       A minus as a single word in the Update: line of a distribution marks everything to be deleted. The mark causes later rules to get  packages
       even if they have (strict) lower versions. The mark will get removed if a later rule sets the package on hold (hold is not yet implemented,
       in case you might wonder) or would get a package with the same version (Which it will not, see above). If the mark is still  there  at  the
       end of the processing, the package will get removed.

       Thus  the line "Update: - rules " will cause all packages to be exactly the highest Version found in rules.  The line "Update: near - rules
       " will do the same, except if it needs to download packages, it might download it from near except when too confused. (It will get too con‐
       fused  e.g.  when  near  or  rules have multiple versions of the package and the highest in near is not the first one in rules, as it never
       remember more than one possible spring for a package.

       Warning: This rule applies to all type/component/architecture triplets of a distribution, not only those some other update rule applies to.
       (That means it will delete everything in those!)

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       Environment variables are always overwritten by command line options, but overwrite options set in the options file. (Even when the options
       file is obviously parsed after the environment variables as the environment may determine the place of the options file).

       REPREPRO_BASE_DIR
              The directory in this variable is used instead of the current directory, if no -b or --basedir options are supplied.
              It is also set in all hook scripts called by reprepro (relative to the current directory or absolute, depending on how reprepro  got
              it).

       REPREPRO_CONFIG_DIR
              The directory in this variable is used when no --confdir is supplied.
              It  is also set in all hook scripts called by reprepro (relative to the current directory or absolute, depending on how reprepro got
              it).

       REPREPRO_OUT_DIR
              This is not used, but only set in hook scripts called by reprepro to the directory in which the pool subdirectory resides  (relative
              to the current directory or absolute, depending on how reprepro got it).

       REPREPRO_DIST_DIR
              This is not used, but only set in hook scripts called by reprepro to the dists directory (relative to the current directory or abso‐
              lute, depending on how reprepro got it).

       REPREPRO_LOG_DIR
              This is not used, but only set in hook scripts called by reprepro to the value setable by --logdir.

       REPREPRO_CAUSING_COMMAND

       REPREPRO_CAUSING_FILE
              Those two environment variable are set (or unset) in Log: and ByHandHooks: scripts and hint what command and what  file  caused  the
              hook to be called (if there is some).

       REPREPRO_CAUSING_RULE
              This environment variable is set (or unset) in Log: scripts and hint what update or pull rule caused this change.

       REPREPRO_FROM
              This  environment variable is set (or unset) in Log: scripts and denotes what other distribution a package is copied from (with pull
              and copy commands).

       REPREPRO_FILTER_ARCHITECTURE

       REPREPRO_FILTER_CODENAME

       REPREPRO_FILTER_COMPONENT

       REPREPRO_FILTER_PACKAGETYPE

       REPREPRO_FILTER_PATTERN
              Set in FilterList: and FilterSrcList:  scripts.

       GNUPGHOME
              Not used by reprepro directly.  But reprepro uses libgpgme, which calls gpg for signing and verification of  signatures.   And  your
              gpg  will  most likely use the content of this variable instead of "~/.gnupg".  Take a look at gpg(1) to be sure.  You can also tell
              reprepro to set this with the --gnupghome option.

       GPG_TTY
              When there is a gpg-agent running that does not have the passphrase cached yet, gpg will most likely try to start some pinentry pro‐
              gram  to get it.  If that is pinentry-curses, that is likely to fail without this variable, because it cannot find a terminal to ask
              on.  In this cases you might set this variable to something like the value of $(tty) or $SSH_TTY or anything else denoting a  usable
              terminal.  (You might also want to make sure you actually have a terminal available.  With ssh you might need the -t option to get a
              terminal even when telling gpg to start a specific command).

              By default, reprepro will set this variable to what the symbolic link /proc/self/fd/0 points to, if stdin is a terminal, unless  you
              told with --noguessgpgtty to not do so.

BUGS
       Increased verbosity always shows those things one does not want to know.  (Though this might be inevitable and a corollary to Murphy)

       Reprepro  uses  berkeley db, which was a big mistake.  The most annoying problem not yet worked around is database corruption when the disk
       runs out of space.  (Luckily if it happens while downloading packages while updating, only the files database is affected,  which  is  easy
       (though time consuming) to rebuild, see recovery file in the documentation).  Ideally put the database on another partition to avoid that.

       While the source part is mostly considered as the architecture source some parts may still not use this notation.

WORK-AROUNDS TO COMMON PROBLEMS
       gpgme returned an impossible condition
              With  the  woody  version  this normally meant that there was no .gnupg directory in $HOME, but it created one and reprepro succeeds
              when called again with the same command.  Since sarge the problem sometimes shows up, too. But it is no longer reproducible  and  it
              does  not fix itself, neither. Try running gpg --verify file-you-had-problems-with manually as the user reprepro is running and with
              the same $HOME. This alone might fix the problem. It should not print any messages except perhaps
              gpg: no valid OpenPGP data found.
              gpg: the signature could not be verified.
              if it was an unsigned file.

       not including .orig.tar.gz when a .changes file's version does not end in -0 or -1
              If dpkg-buildpackage is run without the -sa option to build a version with a Debian revision not being -0 or -1, it  does  not  list
              the  .orig.tar.gz  file  in the .changes file.  If you want to include such a file with reprepro when the .orig.tar.gz file does not
              already exist in the pool, reprepro will report an error.  This can be worked around by:
              call dpkg-buildpackage with -sa (recommended)
              copy the .orig.tar.gz file to the proper place in the pool before
              call reprepro with --ignore=missingfile (discouraged)

       leftover files in the pool directory.
              reprepro is sometimes a bit too timid of deleting stuff. When things go wrong and there have been errors it  sometimes  just  leaves
              everything  where  it is.  To see what files reprepro remembers to be in your pool directory but does not know anything needing them
              right know, you can use
              reprepro dumpunreferenced
              To delete them:
              reprepro deleteunreferenced

INTERRUPTING
       Interrupting reprepro has its problems.  Some things (like speaking with apt methods, database stuff) can cause problems  when  interrupted
       at  the wrong time.  Then there are design problems of the code making it hard to distinguish if the current state is dangerous or non-dan‐
       gerous to interrupt.  Thus if reprepro receives a signal normally sent to tell a process to terminate itself softly, it continues its oper‐
       ation, but does not start any new operations.  (I.e. it will not tell the apt-methods any new file to download, it will not replace a pack‐
       age in a target, unless it already had started with it, it will not delete any files gotten dereferenced, and so on).

       It only catches the first signal of each type. The second signal of a given type will terminate reprepro. You will risk database corruption
       and have to remove the lockfile manually.

       Also  note that even normal interruption leads to code-paths mostly untested and thus expose a multitude of bugs including those leading to
       data corruption.  Better think a second more before issuing a command than risking the need for interruption.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs or wishlist requests to the Debian BTS
       (e.g. by using reportbug reprepro under Debian)
       or directly to brlink@debian.org

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2004,2005,2006,2007,2008,2009,2010,2011,2012 Bernhard R. Link ⟨http://www.brlink.eu⟩
       This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A  PARTICU‐
       LAR PURPOSE.

reprepro                                                            2013-05-04                                                         REPREPRO(1)
