RNDC-CONFGEN(8)                                                                                     BIND9                                                                                     RNDC-CONFGEN(8)



NAME
       rndc-confgen - rndc key generation tool

SYNOPSIS
       rndc-confgen [-a] [-b keysize] [-c keyfile] [-h] [-k keyname] [-p port] [-r randomfile] [-s address] [-t chrootdir] [-u user]

DESCRIPTION
       rndc-confgen generates configuration files for rndc. It can be used as a convenient alternative to writing the rndc.conf file and the corresponding controls and key statements in named.conf by hand.
       Alternatively, it can be run with the -a option to set up a rndc.key file and avoid the need for a rndc.conf file and a controls statement altogether.

OPTIONS
       -a
           Do automatic rndc configuration. This creates a file rndc.key in /etc (or whatever sysconfdir was specified as when BIND was built) that is read by both rndc and named on startup. The rndc.key
           file defines a default command channel and authentication key allowing rndc to communicate with named on the local host with no further configuration.

           Running rndc-confgen -a allows BIND 9 and rndc to be used as drop-in replacements for BIND 8 and ndc, with no changes to the existing BIND 8 named.conf file.

           If a more elaborate configuration than that generated by rndc-confgen -a is required, for example if rndc is to be used remotely, you should run rndc-confgen without the -a option and set up a
           rndc.conf and named.conf as directed.

       -b keysize
           Specifies the size of the authentication key in bits. Must be between 1 and 512 bits; the default is 128.

       -c keyfile
           Used with the -a option to specify an alternate location for rndc.key.

       -h
           Prints a short summary of the options and arguments to rndc-confgen.

       -k keyname
           Specifies the key name of the rndc authentication key. This must be a valid domain name. The default is rndc-key.

       -p port
           Specifies the command channel port where named listens for connections from rndc. The default is 953.

       -r randomfile
           Specifies a source of random data for generating the authorization. If the operating system does not provide a /dev/random or equivalent device, the default source of randomness is keyboard
           input.  randomdev specifies the name of a character device or file containing random data to be used instead of the default. The special value keyboard indicates that keyboard input should be
           used.

       -s address
           Specifies the IP address where named listens for command channel connections from rndc. The default is the loopback address 127.0.0.1.

       -t chrootdir
           Used with the -a option to specify a directory where named will run chrooted. An additional copy of the rndc.key will be written relative to this directory so that it will be found by the
           chrooted named.

       -u user
           Used with the -a option to set the owner of the rndc.key file generated. If -t is also specified only the file in the chroot area has its owner changed.

EXAMPLES
       To allow rndc to be used with no manual configuration, run

       rndc-confgen -a

       To print a sample rndc.conf file and corresponding controls and key statements to be manually inserted into named.conf, run

       rndc-confgen

SEE ALSO
       rndc(8), rndc.conf(5), named(8), BIND 9 Administrator Reference Manual.

AUTHOR
       Internet Systems Consortium, Inc.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2004, 2005, 2007, 2009, 2014, 2015 Internet Systems Consortium, Inc. ("ISC")
       Copyright © 2001, 2003 Internet Software Consortium.



ISC                                                                                               2009-06-15                                                                                  RNDC-CONFGEN(8)
