RST2ODT(1)                                                        text processing                                                       RST2ODT(1)

NAME
       rst2odt - convert reST documents to OpenDocument text (ODT)

SYNOPSIS
       rst2odt [options] [<source> [<destination>]]

DESCRIPTION
       Generates  OpenDocument/OpenOffice/ODF  documents  from  standalone  reStructuredText  sources.  Reads from <source> (default is stdin) and
       writes to <destination> (default is stdout).  See <http://docutils.sf.net/docs/user/config.html> for the full reference.

OPTIONS
   General Docutils Options
       --title=TITLE
              Specify the document title as metadata.

       --generator, -g
              Include a "Generated by Docutils" credit and link.

       --no-generator
              Do not include a generator credit.

       --date, -d
              Include the date at the end of the document (UTC).

       --time, -t
              Include the time & date (UTC).

       --no-datestamp
              Do not include a datestamp of any kind.

       --source-link, -s
              Include a "View document source" link.

       --source-url=<URL>
              Use <URL> for a source link; implies --source-link.

       --no-source-link
              Do not include a "View document source" link.

       --toc-entry-backlinks
              Link from section headers to TOC entries.  (default)

       --toc-top-backlinks
              Link from section headers to the top of the TOC.

       --no-toc-backlinks
              Disable backlinks to the table of contents.

       --footnote-backlinks
              Link from footnotes/citations to references. (default)

       --no-footnote-backlinks
              Disable backlinks from footnotes and citations.

       --section-numbering
              Enable section numbering by Docutils.  (default)

       --no-section-numbering
              Disable section numbering by Docutils.

       --strip-comments
              Remove comment elements from the document tree.

       --leave-comments
              Leave comment elements in the document tree. (default)

       --strip-elements-with-class=<class>
              Remove all elements with classes="<class>" from the document tree. Warning: potentially dangerous; use with  caution.  (Multiple-use
              option.)

       --strip-class=<class>
              Remove  all classes="<class>" attributes from elements in the document tree. Warning: potentially dangerous; use with caution. (Mul‐
              tiple-use option.)

       --report=<level>, -r <level>
              Report system messages at or higher than <level>: "info" or "1", "warning"/"2" (default), "error"/"3", "severe"/"4", "none"/"5"

       --verbose, -v
              Report all system messages.  (Same as "--report=1".)

       --quiet, -q
              Report no system messages.  (Same as "--report=5".)

       --halt=<level>
              Halt execution at system messages at or above <level>.  Levels as in --report.  Default: 4 (severe).

       --strict
              Halt at the slightest problem.  Same as "--halt=info".

       --exit-status=<level>
              Enable a non-zero exit status for non-halting system messages at or above <level>.  Default: 5 (disabled).

       --debug
              Enable debug-level system messages and diagnostics.

       --no-debug
              Disable debug output.  (default)

       --warnings=<file>
              Send the output of system messages to <file>.

       --traceback
              Enable Python tracebacks when Docutils is halted.

       --no-traceback
              Disable Python tracebacks.  (default)

       --input-encoding=<name[:handler]>, -i <name[:handler]>
              Specify the encoding and optionally the error handler of input text.  Default: <locale-dependent>:strict.

       --input-encoding-error-handler=INPUT_ENCODING_ERROR_HANDLER
              Specify the error handler for undecodable characters.  Choices: "strict" (default), "ignore", and "replace".

       --output-encoding=<name[:handler]>, -o <name[:handler]>
              Specify the text encoding and optionally the error handler for output.  Default: UTF-8:strict.

       --output-encoding-error-handler=OUTPUT_ENCODING_ERROR_HANDLER
              Specify error handler for unencodable output characters; "strict" (default), "ignore", "replace", "xmlcharrefreplace", "backslashre‐
              place".

       --error-encoding=<name[:handler]>, -e <name[:handler]>
              Specify text encoding and error handler for error output.  Default: ascii:backslashreplace.

       --error-encoding-error-handler=ERROR_ENCODING_ERROR_HANDLER
              Specify the error handler for unencodable characters in error output.  Default: backslashreplace.

       --language=<name>, -l <name>
              Specify the language (as BCP 47 language tag).  Default: en.

       --record-dependencies=<file>
              Write output file dependencies to <file>.

       --config=<file>
              Read configuration settings from <file>, if it exists.

       --version, -V
              Show this program's version number and exit.

       --help, -h
              Show this help message and exit.

   reStructuredText Parser Options
       --pep-references
              Recognize and link to standalone PEP references (like "PEP 258").

       --pep-base-url=<URL>
              Base URL for PEP references (default "http://www.python.org/dev/peps/").

       --pep-file-url-template=<URL>
              Template for PEP file part of URL. (default "pep-%04d")

       --rfc-references
              Recognize and link to standalone RFC references (like "RFC 822").

       --rfc-base-url=<URL>
              Base URL for RFC references (default "http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/").

       --tab-width=<width>
              Set number of spaces for tab expansion (default 8).

       --trim-footnote-reference-space
              Remove spaces before footnote references.

       --leave-footnote-reference-space
              Leave spaces before footnote references.

       --no-file-insertion
              Disable directives that insert the contents of external file ("include" & "raw"); replaced with a "warning" system message.

       --file-insertion-enabled
              Enable directives that insert the contents of external file ("include" & "raw").  Enabled by default.

       --no-raw
              Disable the "raw" directives; replaced with a "warning" system message.

       --raw-enabled
              Enable the "raw" directive.  Enabled by default.

       --syntax-highlight=<format>
              Token name set for parsing code with Pygments: one of "long", "short", or "none (no parsing)". Default is "long".

       --smart-quotes=SMART_QUOTES
              Change straight quotation marks to typographic form: one of "yes", "no", "alt[ernative]" (default "no").

   Standalone Reader
       --no-doc-title
              Disable  the promotion of a lone top-level section title to document title (and subsequent section title to document subtitle promo‐
              tion; enabled by default).

       --no-doc-info
              Disable the bibliographic field list transform (enabled by default).

       --section-subtitles
              Activate the promotion of lone subsection titles to section subtitles (disabled by default).

       --no-section-subtitles
              Deactivate the promotion of lone subsection titles.

   ODF-Specific Options
       --stylesheet=STYLESHEET
              Specify a stylesheet.  Default: "/usr/share/docutils/writers/odf_odt/styles.odt"

       --odf-config-file=<file>
              Specify a configuration/mapping file relative to the current working directory for additional ODF options.  In particular, this file
              may  contain  a  section named "Formats" that maps default style names to names to be used in the resulting output file allowing for
              adhering to external standards. For more info and the format of the configuration/mapping file, see the odtwriter doc.

       --cloak-email-addresses
              Obfuscate email addresses to confuse harvesters while still keeping email links usable with standards- compliant browsers.

       --no-cloak-email-addresses
              Do not obfuscate email addresses.

       --table-border-thickness=TABLE_BORDER_THICKNESS
              Specify the thickness of table borders in thousands of a cm.  Default is 35.

       --add-syntax-highlighting
              Add syntax highlighting in literal code blocks.

       --no-syntax-highlighting
              Do not add syntax highlighting in literal code blocks.  (default)

       --create-sections
              Create sections for headers.  (default)

       --no-sections
              Do not create sections for headers.

       --create-links
              Create links.

       --no-links
              Do not create links.  (default)

       --endnotes-end-doc
              Generate endnotes at end of document, not footnotes at bottom of page.

       --no-endnotes-end-doc
              Generate footnotes at bottom of page, not endnotes at end of document. (default)

       --generate-list-toc
              Generate a bullet list table of contents, not an ODF/oowriter table of contents.

       --generate-oowriter-toc
              Generate an ODF/oowriter table of contents, not a bullet list. (default)

       --custom-odt-header=CUSTOM_HEADER
              Specify the contents of an custom header line.   See  odf_odt  writer  documentation  for  details  about  special  field  character
              sequences.

       --custom-odt-footer=CUSTOM_FOOTER
              Specify  the  contents  of  an  custom  footer  line.   See  odf_odt  writer documentation for details about special field character
              sequences.

                                                                                                                                        RST2ODT(1)
