SEMODULE_PACKAGE(8)                                                                                  NSA                                                                                  SEMODULE_PACKAGE(8)



NAME
       semodule_package - Create a SELinux policy module package.


SYNOPSIS
       semodule_package -o <output file> -m <module> [-f <file contexts>]

DESCRIPTION
       semodule_package is the tool used to create a SELinux policy module package from a binary policy module and optionally other data such as file contexts.  semodule_package packages binary policy mod‐
       ules created by checkmodule.  The policy package created by semodule_package can then be installed via semodule.


EXAMPLE
       # Build a policy package for a base module.
       $ semodule_package -o base.pp -m base.mod -f file_contexts
       # Build a policy package for a httpd module.
       $ semodule_package -o httpd.pp -m httpd.mod -f httpd.fc
       # Build a policy package for local TE rules and no file contexts.
       $ semodule_package -o local.pp -m local.mod


OPTIONS
       -o --outfile <output file>
              Policy module package file generated by this tool.

       -s --seuser <seuser file>
              seuser file to be included in the package.

       -u --user_extra <user extra file>
              user_extra file to be included in the package.

       -m --module <Module file>
              Policy module file to be included in the package.

       -f --fc <File context file>
              File contexts file for the module (optional).

       -n --nc <netfilter context file>
              netfilter context file to be included in the package.


SEE ALSO
       checkmodule(8), semodule(8), semodule_unpackage(8)

AUTHORS
       This manual page was written by Dan Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>.
       The program was written by Karl MacMillan <kmacmillan@tresys.com>



Security Enhanced Linux                                                                            Nov 2005                                                                               SEMODULE_PACKAGE(8)
