SETUP-DS.PL(8)                                                                             System Manager's Manual                                                                             SETUP-DS.PL(8)



NAME
       setup-ds.pl - Set up an instance of Directory Server

SYNOPSIS
       setup-ds.pl [--options] -- [args]

DESCRIPTION
       Set  up a Directory Server instance.  Creates the configuration files for an instance of Directory Server based on a few parameters like the hostname, port number, and directory manager information.
       Can be run in interactive mode with different levels of verbosity, or in silent mode with parameters supplied in a .inf format file or on the command line.

OPTIONS
       A summary of options is included below:

       --help This message

       --version
              Print the version and exit

       --debug
              Turn on debugging

       --silent
              Use silent setup - no user input

       --file=name
              Use the file 'name' in .inf format to supply the default answers

       --keepcache
              Do not delete the temporary .inf file generated by this program

       --logfile
              Log setup messages to this file - otherwise, a temp file will be used

       --update
              Update existing installations - add/update schema files, add/change configuration, add new instance scripts, etc. You must run setup-ds.pl -u after upgrading your packages.  You will  usually
              have to restart your servers in order for all of the changes to take effect (e.g. adding/changing plug-in configuration), so schedule this when you can afford a little downtime.

       --continue
              (Update only) Keep going even if errors occur.  You will usually not need to use this option unless your installation is broken and you need to force it to update in order to fix it.

       For all options, you can also use the short name e.g. -h, -d, etc.  For the -d argument, specifying it more than once will increase the debug level e.g. -ddddd

       args: You can supply default .inf data in this format:

              section.param=value

       e.g.

              General.FullMachineName=foo.example.com

       or

              "slapd.Suffix=dc=example, dc=com"

       Values passed in this manner will override values in an .inf file given with the -f argument.

UPDATES
       The update process (setup-ds.pl -u) can work in one of two modes:

       Online:  Configuration  changes  are  made to the running directory servers using LDAP.  The operations must be performed as an administrative user.  You must provide the name and password, for each
       instance if there is more than one instance of directory server. Some changes (e.g. plug-ins) may require a directory server restart to take effect.  The update script will notify you if  a  restart
       is required.

       Offline:  The  changes  are  made  to the server configuration files.  The servers MUST FIRST BE SHUTDOWN BY YOU.  The script will not shutdown the servers for you.  You MUST shutdown the servers in
       order to use this mode.  A username and password are not required to use Offline mode.  If the servers are not shutdown, CHANGES WILL BE LOST.

       To summarize:

       Online - servers remain running - you must provide admin name and password for each server - servers may need to be restarted

       Offline - servers must be shutdown - no username or password required

AUTHOR
       setup-ds.pl was written by the 389 Project.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to https://pagure.io/389-ds-base/new_issue

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2017 Red Hat, Inc.
       This manual page was written by Michele Baldessari <michele@pupazzo.org>, for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
       This is free software.  You may redistribute copies of it under the terms of the Directory Server license found in the LICENSE file of this software distribution.  This license  is  essentially  the
       GNU General Public License version 2 with an exception for plug-in distribution.



                                                                                                March 31, 2017                                                                                 SETUP-DS.PL(8)
