SG_READ_ATTR(8)                                                                                   SG3_UTILS                                                                                   SG_READ_ATTR(8)



NAME
       sg_read_attr - send SCSI READ ATTRIBUTE command

SYNOPSIS
       sg_read_attr  [--cache]  [--enumerate]  [--ea=EA]  [--filter=FL]  [--first=FAI]  [--help]  [--hex] [--in=FN] [--lvn=LVN] [--maxlen=LEN] [--pn=PN] [--quiet] [--raw] [--readonly] [--sa=SA] [--verbose]
       [--version] DEVICE

DESCRIPTION
       Sends a SCSI READ ATTRIBUTE command to DEVICE and outputs the data returned. This command is found in the SPC-5 draft standard, revision 8 (spc5r08.pdf).

OPTIONS
       Arguments to long options are mandatory for short options as well.

       -c, --cache
              sets the CACHE bit in the READ ATTRIBUTE cdb. This instructs the device server to return cached attributes. By default that bit is cleared which instructs the  device  server  not  to  return
              cached attributes.

       -e, --enumerate
              enumerates all known attributes and service actions. Attributes include an identifier, length, format and a name as defined by T10. If DEVICE is given then it is ignored.

       -E, --ea=EA
              where  EA  is  an  element address which is placed in the READ ATTRIBUTE cdb. This field is only found in SMC-2 and SMC-3 drafts for medium changers usually associated with tape libraries. By
              default this field is set to zero.

       -f, --filter=FL
              where FL is an attribute identifier in the range 0 to 65535 or -1.  Attribute identifiers are typical given in hexadecimal in which case the hex number should be prefixed by  "0x"  ot  has  a
              trailing "h". "-1" is the default value and means 'match all'; for all other values of FL on the matching attribute is output.

       -F, --first=FAI
              where  FAI  is  the  "first  attribute identifier" field in the cdb. It seems as though the intent of this field is that only attributes whose identifiers are equal to or greater than FAI are
              returned. The default value of FAI is zero. Attributes are returned in ascending identifier order.

       -h, --help
              output the usage message then exit.

       -H, --hex
              output the response in hexadecimal to stdout. When used once the whole response is output in ASCII hexadecimal with a leading address (starting at 0)  on  each  line.  When  used  twice  each
              attribute descriptor in the response is output separately in hexadecimal. When used thrice the whole response is output in hexadecimal with no leading address (on each line).
              Output generated by '-HHH' (or --hex used three times) can be redirected to a file. That file will be in suitable format for --in=FN to use in a later invocation.

       -i, --in=FN
              FN is treated as a file name (or '-' for stdin) which contains ASCII hexadecimal or binary representing the response to a READ ATTRIBUTE command with service action 0x0 (i.e (fetch) attribute
              values). When this option is given then DEVICE (if also given) is ignored.
              By default FN is assumed to contain ASCII hexadecimal arranged as bytes which a space, tab or comma delimited. All characters from (and including) "#" to the end of line are ignored.  If  the
              --raw  option  is  also  given  then  FN is assumed to contain binary data. When the --raw option is given then after processing the input the internal raw variable is reset to 0 so it has no
              effect on the output.
              Since the READ ATTRIBUTE response does not contain the service action number that it is a response to, then the --sa=SA should be given (if not service action 0 (attribute values) is assumed.

       -l, --lvn=LVN
              where LVN is placed in the "logical volume number" field of the cdb.  The default value is zero which is required to be the logical volume number if the device only has one volume.

       -m, --maxlen=LEN
              where LEN is the (maximum) response length in bytes. It is placed in the cdb's "allocation length" field. If not given (or LEN is zero) then 8192 is used. The maximum allowed value of LEN  is
              1048576.

       -p, --pn=PN
              where PN is placed in the "partition number" field of the cdb. If the DEVICE only has one partition then its partition number must be zero. The default value of PN is zero.

       -q, --quiet
              this  option  reduces the amount of information output. For example when used once (SA=0), it suppresses the header line announcing the output of attributes; when used twice it suppresses the
              name of each attribute, leaving only the associated attribute values (or strings).

       -r, --raw
              output the SCSI response (i.e. the data-out buffer) in binary (to stdout).

       -R, --readonly
              open the DEVICE read-only (e.g. in Unix with the O_RDONLY flag).  The default is to open it read-write.

       -s, --sa=SA
              where SA is placed on the "service action" field of the cdb. Values of 0 to 63 are accepted with a default of 0. spc5r08.pdf defines five service actions: 0 for attributes values ; 1  for  an
              attribute list (names, not values), 2 for the logical volume list; 3 for the partition list; 4 is restricted for SMC-3; and 5 for the supported attribute list.
              Alternatively  an  acronym  can be given for SA. The acronym should be one of "av", "al", "lvl", "pn", "smc" or "sa" for service actions 0 to 5 respectively. The acronyms can also be given in
              upper case.

       -v, --verbose
              increase the level of verbosity, (i.e. debug output).

       -V, --version
              print the version string and then exit.

NOTES
       Only tape systems seem to implement the SCSI READ ATTRIBUTE command. The vast majority of its definition is in the SPC standard so other device types could use it.

       Much of the information provided by READ ATTRIBUTE can also be found in pages returned by LOG SENSE (see the sg_logs utility) and in the VPD pages returned by the INQUIRY command.

EXAMPLES
       To list the attributes of a tape drive whose xxxx is /dev/sg1 the following could be used:

       # sg_read_attr -s al /dev/sg1
       Attribute list:
         Remaining capacity in partition [MiB]
         Maximum capacity in partition [MiB]
         TapeAlert flags
         Load count
         MAM space remaining [B]
         Assigning organization
         Format density code
         ...

       To check the number of partitions:

       # sg_read_attr -s pl /dev/sg1
       Partition number list:
         First partition number: 0
         Number of partitions available: 2

       And to see the attribute values (which is the default service action):

       # sg_read_attr /dev/sg1
       Attribute values:
         Remaining capacity in partition [MiB]: 1386103
         Maximum capacity in partition [MiB]: 1386103
         TapeAlert flags: 0
         ....

       To redirect the attribute values response to a file for later decoding:

       # sg_read_attr -HHH /dev/sg1 > av.hex

       And later the response held in the av.hex file could be decoded with:

       # sg_read_attr -s av --in=av.hex
       Attribute values:
         Remaining capacity in partition [MiB]: 1386103
         Maximum capacity in partition [MiB]: 1386103
         TapeAlert flags: 0
         ....

EXIT STATUS
       The exit status of sg_read_attr is 0 when it is successful. Otherwise see the sg3_utils(8) man page.

AUTHORS
       Written by Douglas Gilbert.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <dgilbert at interlog dot com>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2016 Douglas Gilbert
       This software is distributed under a FreeBSD license. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

SEE ALSO
       sg_vpd,sg_logs(sg3_utils)



sg3_utils-1.42                                                                                  February 2016                                                                                 SG_READ_ATTR(8)
