SIPCRACK(1)                                                   General Commands Manual                                                  SIPCRACK(1)

NAME
       sipcrack - A suite of tools to sniff and crack the digest authentications within the SIP protocol.

SYNOPSIS
       sipcrack [options] <dump_file>

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the sipcrack tool

       Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) is a protocol developed by the IETF MMUSIC Working Group and is a proposed standard for initiating, modi‐
       fying, and terminating an interactive user session that involves multimedia elements such as video, voice, instant messaging, online games,
       and virtual reality.

       In  November  2000,  SIP was accepted as a 3GPP signaling protocol and permanent element of the IMS architecture.  It is one of the leading
       signalling protocols for Voice over IP, along with H.323. In most VOIP solutions SIP is used to authenticate the SIPclient.   The  protocol
       is documented inside the RFC at www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3261.txt

       SIPcrack  is  a SIP login sniffer/cracker that contains 2 programs: sipdump to capture the digest authentication and sipcrack to bruteforce
       the hash using a wordlist or standard input.
       sipdump dumps SIP digest authentications. If a login is found, the sniffed login is written  to  the  dump  file.   See  'sipdump  -h'  for
       options.
       sipcrack  bruteforces  the  user's  password with the dump file generated by sipdump. If a password is found, the sniffed and cracked login
       will be updated in the dump file.
       See 'sipcrack -h' for options.

OPTIONS
       A summary of options is included below.

       -s,    Use stdin for passwords

       -w wordlist,
              file containing all passwords to try.

       -p num,
              print cracking process every n passwords (for -w)
              (ATTENTION: slows down heavily)

EXAMPLE
       sipdump -i eth0 logins.dump
       sipcrack -w mywordlist.txt logins.dump

SEE ALSO
       sipdump(1).

AUTHOR
       sipcrack was written by Martin J. Muench <mjm@codito.de>

       This manual page was written by Sebastian Castillo Builes <castillobuiles@gmail.com>, for the Debian project (but may be used by others).

                                                                  April 29, 2008                                                       SIPCRACK(1)
