tpm2_checkquote(1)                                            General Commands Manual                                           tpm2_checkquote(1)

NAME
       tpm2_checkquote(1) - Validates a quote provided by a TPM.

SYNOPSIS
       tpm2_checkquote [OPTIONS]

DESCRIPTION
       tpm2_checkquote(1)  - Uses the public portion of the provided key to validate a quote generated by a TPM.  This will validate the signature
       against the quote message and, if provided, verify that the qualifying data and PCR values match those in the quote.

OPTIONS
       • -u, --public=FILE:

         File input for the public portion of the signature verification key.

       • -g, --hash-algorithm=ALGORITHM:

         The hash algorithm used to digest the message.

       • -m, --message=FILE:

         The quote message that makes up the data that is signed by the TPM.

       • -s, --signature=FILE:

         The input signature file of the signature to be validated.

       • -F, --format=FORMAT:

         Signature format.  The default is the TPM2.0 TPMT_SIGNATURE.  Other schemes are possible if the data came from an  external  source  like
         OpenSSL.  The tool currently only supports rsassa.

       • -f, --pcr=FILE:

         Optional PCR input file to save the list of PCR values that were included in the quote.

       • -q, --qualification=HEX_STRING_OR_PATH:

         Qualification data for the quote.  Can either be a hex string or path.  This is typically used to add a nonce against replay attacks.

   References
Algorithm Specifiers
       Options that take algorithms support “nice-names”.

       There are two major algorithm specification string classes, simple and complex.  Only certain algorithms will be accepted by the TPM, based
       on usage and conditions.

   Simple specifiers
       These are strings with no additional specification data.  When creating objects, non-specified portions of an object  are  assumed  to  de‐
       faults.  You can find the list of known “Simple Specifiers Below”.

   Asymmetric
       • rsa

       • ecc

   Symmetric
       • aes

       • camellia

   Hashing Algorithms
       • sha1

       • sha256

       • sha384

       • sha512

       • sm3_256

       • sha3_256

       • sha3_384

       • sha3_512

   Keyed Hash
       • hmac

       • xor

   Signing Schemes
       • rsassa

       • rsapss

       • ecdsa

       • ecdaa

       • ecschnorr

   Asymmetric Encryption Schemes
       • oaep

       • rsaes

       • ecdh

   Modes
       • ctr

       • ofb

       • cbc

       • cfb

       • ecb

   Misc
       • null

   Complex Specifiers
       Objects,  when  specified  for  creation by the TPM, have numerous algorithms to populate in the public data.  Things like type, scheme and
       asymmetric details, key size, etc.  Below is the general format for specifying this data: <type>:<scheme>:<symmetric-details>

   Type Specifiers
       This portion of the complex algorithm specifier is required.  The remaining scheme and symmetric details will default  based  on  the  type
       specified and the type of the object being created.

       • aes - Default AES: aes128

       • aes128<mode> - 128 bit AES with optional mode (ctr|ofb|cbc|cfb|ecb).  If mode is not specified, defaults to null.

       • aes192<mode> - Same as aes128<mode>, except for a 192 bit key size.

       • aes256<mode> - Same as aes128<mode>, except for a 256 bit key size.

       • ecc - Elliptical Curve, defaults to ecc256.

       • ecc192 - 192 bit ECC

       • ecc224 - 224 bit ECC

       • ecc256 - 256 bit ECC

       • ecc384 - 384 bit ECC

       • ecc521 - 521 bit ECC

       • rsa - Default RSA: rsa2048

       • rsa1024 - RSA with 1024 bit keysize.

       • rsa2048 - RSA with 2048 bit keysize.

       • rsa4096 - RSA with 4096 bit keysize.

   Scheme Specifiers
       Next, is an optional field, it can be skipped.

       Schemes  are  usually  Signing Schemes or Asymmetric Encryption Schemes.  Most signing schemes take a hash algorithm directly following the
       signing scheme.  If the hash algorithm is missing, it defaults to sha256.  Some take no arguments, and some take multiple arguments.

   Hash Optional Scheme Specifiers
       These scheme specifiers are followed by a dash and a valid hash algorithm, For example: oaep-sha256.

       • oaep

       • ecdh

       • rsassa

       • rsapss

       • ecdsa

       • ecschnorr

   Multiple Option Scheme Specifiers
       This scheme specifier is followed by a count (max size UINT16) then folloed by a dash(-) and a valid hash algorithm.  * ecdaa For  example,
       ecdaa4-sha256.  If no count is specified, it defaults to 4.

   No Option Scheme Specifiers
       This scheme specifier takes NO arguments.  * rsaes

   Symmetric Details Specifiers
       This  field is optional, and defaults based on the type of object being created and it’s attributes.  Generally, any valid Symmetric speci‐
       fier from the Type Specifiers list should work.  If not specified, an asymmetric objects symmetric details defaults to aes128cfb.

   Examples
   Create an rsa2048 key with an rsaes asymmetric encryption scheme
       tpm2_create -C parent.ctx -G rsa2048:rsaes -u key.pub -r key.priv

   Create an ecc256 key with an ecdaa signing scheme with a count of 4 and sha384 hash
       /tpm2_create -C parent.ctx -G ecc256:ecdaa4-sha384 -u key.pub -r key.priv cryptographic algorithms ALGORITHM.

Signature Format Specifiers
       Format selection for the signature output file.  tss (the default) will output a binary blob according to the TPM 2.0 specification and any
       potential  compiler padding.  The option plain will output the plain signature data as defined by the used cryptographic algorithm.  signa‐
       ture FORMAT.

COMMON OPTIONS
       This collection of options are common to many programs and provide information that many users may expect.

       • -h, --help=[man|no-man]: Display the tools manpage.  By default, it attempts to invoke the manpager for the  tool,  however,  on  failure
         will  output a short tool summary.  This is the same behavior if the “man” option argument is specified, however if explicit “man” is re‐
         quested, the tool will provide errors from man on stderr.  If the “no-man” option if specified, or the manpager fails, the short  options
         will be output to stdout.

         To successfully use the manpages feature requires the manpages to be installed or on MANPATH, See man(1) for more details.

       • -v, --version: Display version information for this tool, supported tctis and exit.

       • -V,  --verbose:  Increase  the information that the tool prints to the console during its execution.  When using this option the file and
         line number are printed.

       • -Q, --quiet: Silence normal tool output to stdout.

       • -Z, --enable-errata: Enable the application of errata fixups.  Useful if an errata fixup needs to be applied to commands sent to the TPM.
         Defining the environment TPM2TOOLS_ENABLE_ERRATA is equivalent.  information many users may expect.

TCTI Configuration
       The  TCTI or “Transmission Interface” is the communication mechanism with the TPM.  TCTIs can be changed for communication with TPMs across
       different mediums.

       To control the TCTI, the tools respect:

       1. The command line option -T or --tcti

       2. The environment variable: TPM2TOOLS_TCTI.

       Note: The command line option always overrides the environment variable.

       The current known TCTIs are:

       • tabrmd - The resource manager, called tabrmd (https://github.com/tpm2-software/tpm2-abrmd).  Note that tabrmd and abrmd as  a  tcti  name
         are synonymous.

       • mssim - Typically used for communicating to the TPM software simulator.

       • device - Used when talking directly to a TPM device file.

       • none  -  Do not initalize a connection with the TPM.  Some tools allow for off-tpm options and thus support not using a TCTI.  Tools that
         do not support it will error when attempted to be used without a TCTI connection.  Does not support ANY options and MUST BE presented  as
         the exact text of “none”.

       The arguments to either the command line option or the environment variable are in the form:

       <tcti-name>:<tcti-option-config>

       Specifying  an  empty  string for either the <tcti-name> or <tcti-option-config> results in the default being used for that portion respec‐
       tively.

   TCTI Defaults
       When a TCTI is not specified, the default TCTI is searched for using dlopen(3) semantics.  The tools will search  for  tabrmd,  device  and
       mssim  TCTIs  IN  THAT  ORDER and USE THE FIRST ONE FOUND.  You can query what TCTI will be chosen as the default by using the -v option to
       print the version information.  The “default-tcti” key-value pair will indicate which of the aforementioned TCTIs is the default.

   Custom TCTIs
       Any TCTI that implements the dynamic TCTI interface can be loaded.  The tools internally use dlopen(3), and the raw tcti-name value is used
       for the lookup.  Thus, this could be a path to the shared library, or a library name as understood by dlopen(3) semantics.

TCTI OPTIONS
       This collection of options are used to configure the various known TCTI modules available:

       • device: For the device TCTI, the TPM character device file for use by the device TCTI can be specified.  The default is /dev/tpm0.

         Example: -T device:/dev/tpm0 or export TPM2TOOLS_TCTI=“device:/dev/tpm0”

       • mssim:  For  the  mssim  TCTI,  the  domain  name  or IP address and port number used by the simulator can be specified.  The default are
         127.0.0.1 and 2321.

         Example: -T mssim:host=localhost,port=2321 or export TPM2TOOLS_TCTI=“mssim:host=localhost,port=2321”

       • abrmd: For the abrmd TCTI, the configuration string format is a series of simple key value pairs separated by a `,' character.  Each  key
         and value string are separated by a `=' character.

         • TCTI abrmd supports two keys:

           1. `bus_name' : The name of the tabrmd service on the bus (a string).

           2. `bus_type' : The type of the dbus instance (a string) limited to `session' and `system'.

         Specify the tabrmd tcti name and a config string of bus_name=com.example.FooBar:

                \--tcti=tabrmd:bus_name=com.example.FooBar

         Specify the default (abrmd) tcti and a config string of bus_type=session:

                \--tcti:bus_type=session

         NOTE: abrmd and tabrmd are synonymous.  the various known TCTI modules.

EXAMPLES
   Generate a quote with a TPM, then verify it
              tpm2_createek -c 0x81010009 -G rsa -u ekpub.pem -f pem

              tpm2_createak -C 0x81010009 -k 0x8101000a -G rsa -s rsassa -D sha256 \
              -p akpub.pem -f pem -n ak.name

              tpm2_quote -c 0x8101000a -l sha256:15,16,22 -q abc123 -m quote.out -s sig.out \
              -o pcrs.out -g sha256

              tpm2_checkquote -u akpub.pem -m quote.out -s sig.out -f pcrs.out -g sha256 \
              -q abc123

Returns
       Tools can return any of the following codes:

       • 0 - Success.

       • 1 - General non-specific error.

       • 2 - Options handling error.

       • 3 - Authentication error.

       • 4 - TCTI related error.

       • 5 - Non supported scheme.  Applicable to tpm2_testparams.

BUGS
       Github Issues (https://github.com/tpm2-software/tpm2-tools/issues)

HELP
       See the Mailing List (https://lists.01.org/mailman/listinfo/tpm2)

tpm2-tools                                                                                                                      tpm2_checkquote(1)
