x3270(1)                                                                                   General Commands Manual                                                                                   x3270(1)



NAME
       x3270 - IBM host access tool

SYNOPSIS
       x3270 [options] [host]

       x3270 [options] session-file.x3270


DESCRIPTION
       x3270  opens  a telnet connection to an IBM host in an X window.  It implements RFCs 2355 (TN3270E), 1576 (TN3270) and 1646 (LU name selection), and supports IND$FILE file transfer.  The window cre‐
       ated by x3270 can use its own font for displaying characters, so it is a fairly accurate representation of an IBM 3278 or 3279.  It is similar to tn3270(1) except that it  is  X-based,  not  curses-
       based.

       The full syntax for host is:
              [prefix:]...[LUname@]hostname[:port]

       Prepending a P: onto hostname causes the connection to go through the telnet-passthru service rather than directly to the host.  See PASSTHRU below.

       Prepending an S: onto hostname removes the "extended data stream" option reported to the host.  See -tn below for further information.

       Prepending an N: onto hostname turns off TN3270E support for the session.

       Prepending  an  L: onto hostname causes x3270 to first create an SSL tunnel to the host, and then create a TN3270 session inside the tunnel.  (This function is supported only if x3270 was built with
       SSL/TLS support).  Note that TLS-encrypted sessions using the TELNET START-TLS option are negotiated with the host automatically; for these sessions the L: prefix should not be used.

       A specific Logical Unit (LU) name to use may be specified by prepending it to the hostname with an `@'.  Multiple LU names to try can be separated by commas.  An empty LU can be placed in  the  list
       with an extra comma.  (Note that the LU name is used for different purposes by different kinds of hosts.  For example, CICS uses the LU name as the Terminal ID.)

       The  hostname  may optionally be placed inside square-bracket characters `[' and `]'.  This will prevent any colon `:' characters in the hostname from being interpreted as indicating option prefixes
       or port numbers.  This allows numeric IPv6 addresses to be used as hostnames.

       On systems that support the forkpty library call, the hostname may be replaced with -e and a command string.  This will cause x3270 to connect to a local child process, such as a shell.

       The port to connect to defaults to telnet.  This can be overridden with the -port option, or by appending a port to the hostname with a colon `:'.  (For compatability with previous versions of x3270
       and with tn3270(1), the port may also be specified as a second, separate argument.)


OPTIONS
       x3270 is a toolkit based program, so it understands standard Xt options and resources.  It also understands the following options:

       -activeicon
              Specifies that the icon should be a miniature version of the screen image.  See ICONS below.

       -apl   Sets up APL mode.  This is actually an abbreviation for several options.  See APL SUPPORT below.

       -cadir directory
              Specifies a directory containing CA (root) certificates to use when verifying a certificate provided by the host.

       -cafile filename
              Specifies a PEM-format file containing CA (root) certificates to use when verifying a certificate provided by the host.

       -cc range:value[,...]
              Sets character classes.

       -certfile filename
              Specifies a file containing a certificate to provide to the host, if requested.  The default file type is PEM.

       -certfiletype type
              Specifies the type of the certificate file specified by -certfile.  Type can be pem or asn1.

       -chainfile filename
              Specifies a certificate chain file in PEM format, containing a certificate to provide to the host if requested, as well as one or more intermediate certificates and the CA certificate used to
              sign that certificate.  If -chainfile is specified, it overrides -certfile.

       -charset name
              Specifies an EBCDIC host character set.

       -clear toggle
              Sets the initial value of toggle to false.  The list of toggle names is under MENUS below.

       -devname name
              Specifies a device name (workstation ID) for RFC 4777 support.

       -efont name
              Specifies a font for the emulator window.

       -hostsfile file
              Uses file as the hosts file, which allows aliases for host names and scripts to be executed at login.  See ibm_hosts(1) for details.

       -iconname name
              Specifies an alternate title for the program icon.

       -iconx x
              Specifies the initial x coordinate for the program icon.

       -icony y
              Specifies the initial y coordinate for the program icon.

       -im method
              Specifies the name of the input method to use for multi-byte input.  (Supported only when x3270 is compiled with DBCS support.)

       -keyfile filename
              Specifies a file containing the private key for the certificate file (specified via -certfile or -chainfile).  The default file type is PEM.

       -keyfiletype type
              Specifies the type of the private key file specified by -keyfile.  Type can be pem or asn1.

       -keypasswd type:value
              Specifies the password for the private key file, if it is encrypted.  The argument can be file:filename, specifying that the password is in a file, or string:string, specifying  the  password
              on the command-line directly.  If the private key file is encrypted and no -keypasswd option is given, the password will be prompted for interactively.

       -keymap name
              Specifies a keymap name and optional modifiers.  See KEYMAPS below.

       -keypad
              Turns on the keypad as soon as x3270 starts.

       -km name
              Specifies the local encoding method for multi-byte text.  name is an encoding name recognized by the ICU library.  (Supported only when x3270 is compiled with DBCS support, and necessary only
              when x3270 cannot figure it out from the locale.)

       -model name
              The model of 3270 display to be emulated.  The model name is in two parts, either of which may be omitted:

              The first part is the base model, which is either 3278 or 3279.  3278 specifies a monochrome (green on black) 3270 display; 3279 specifies a color 3270 display.

              The second part is the model number, which specifies the number of rows and columns.  Model 4 is the default.

                                                                                           Model Number   Columns   Rows
                                                                                           ──────────────────────────────
                                                                                                2           80       24
                                                                                                3           80       32
                                                                                                4           80       43
                                                                                                5           132      27

              Note: Technically, there is no such 3270 display as a 3279-4 or 3279-5, but most hosts seem to work with them anyway.

              The default model for a color X display is 3279-4.  For a monochrome X display, it is 3278-4.

       -mono  Forces x3270 to believe it is running on a monochrome X display.

       -once  Causes x3270 to exit after a host disconnects.  This option has effect only if a hostname is specified on the command line.

       -oversize colsxrows
              Makes the screen larger than the default for the chosen model number.  This option has effect only in combination with  extended  data  stream  support  (controlled  by  the  "x3270.extended"
              resource),  and  only if the host supports the Query Reply structured field.  The number of columns multiplied by the number of rows must not exceed 16383 (3fff hex), the limit of 14-bit 3270
              buffer addressing.

       -port n
              Specifies a different TCP port to connect to.  n can be a name from /etc/services like telnet, or a number.  This option changes the default  port  number  used  for  all  connections.   (The
              positional parameter affects only the initial connection.)

       -printerlu luname
              Causes x3270 to automatically start a pr3287 printer session.  If luname is ".", then the printer session will be associated with the interactive terminal session (this requires that the host
              support TN3270E).  Otherwise, the value is used as the explicit LU name to associate with the printer session.

       -proxy type:host[:port]
              Causes x3270 to connect via the specified proxy, instead of using a direct connection.  The host can be an IP address or hostname.  The optional port can be a number or a service name.  For a
              list of supported proxy types, see PROXY below.

       -pt type
              Specifies  the preedit type for the multi-byte input method.  Valid values are OverTheSpot, OffTheSpot, Root and OnTheSpot.  The value for OverTheSpot can include an optional suffix, a signed
              number indicating the vertical distance in rows of the preedit window from the cursor position, e.g. OverTheSpot+1 or OverTheSpot-2.  The default value is OverTheSpot+1.  (Supported only when
              x3270 is compiled with DBCS support.)

       -reconnect
              Causes x3270 to automatically reconnect to the host if it ever disconnects.  This option has effect only if a hostname is specified on the command line.

       -sb    Turns on the scrollbar.

       +sb    Turns the scrollbar off.

       -scheme name
              Specifes a color scheme to use in 3279 mode.  This option has effect only in combination with 3279 emulation.

       -script
              Causes x3270 to read commands from standard input, with the results written to standard output.  The protocol for these commands is documented in x3270-script(1).

       -sl n  Specifies that n lines should be saved for scrolling back.  The default is 64.

       -scriptport port
              Causes x3270 to listen for scripting connections on local TCP port port.

       -set toggle
              Sets the initial value of toggle to true.  The list of toggle names is under MENUS below.

       -socket
              Causes  the emulator to create a Unix-domain socket when it starts, for use by script processes to send commands to the emulator.  The socket is named /tmp/x3sck.process_id.  The -p option of
              x3270if causes it to use this socket, instead of pipes specified by environment variables.

       -tn name
              Specifies the terminal name to be transmitted over the telnet connection.  The default name is IBM-model_name-E, for example, IBM-3279-4-E for  a  color  X  display,  or  IBM-3278-4-E  for  a
              monochrome X display.

              Some  hosts  are confused by the -E suffix on the terminal name, and will ignore the extra screen area on models 3, 4 and 5.  Prepending an s: on the hostname, or setting the "x3270.extended"
              resource to "false", removes the -E from the terminal name when connecting to such hosts.

              The name can also be specified with the "x3270.termName" resource.

       -trace Turns on data stream tracing at startup.  Unlike turning it on from a menu option, there is no pop-up to confirm the file name, which defaults to /tmp/x3trc.process_id.

       -tracefile file
              Specifies a file to save data stream and event traces into.  If the name starts with `>>', data will be appended to the file.  If the value stdout is given, then traces  will  be  written  to
              standard output.  If the value none is given, then traces will be piped directly to the monitor window, and no file will be created.

       -tracefilesize size
              Places  a  limit on the size of a trace file.  If this option is not specified, or is specified as 0 or none, the trace file size will be unlimited.  The minimum size is 64 Kbytes.  The value
              of size can have a K or M suffix, indicating kilobytes or megabytes respectively.  When the trace file reaches the size limit, it will be renamed with a `-' appended and a new file started.

       -user name
              Specifies the user name for RFC 4777 support.

       -v     Display the version and build options for x3270 and exit.

       -verifycert
              For SSL or SSL/TLS connections, verify the host certificate, and do not allow the connection to complete unless it can be validated.

       After reading resource definitions from the X server and any standandard X11 resource definition files ($HOME/.Xdefaults, etc.), x3270 will read definitions from the file $HOME/.x3270pro.  This file
       contains local customizations and is also used to save changed options by the Save Changed Options in File menu option.

       Note that -xrm options override any definitions in the .x3270pro file.

       In addition, the toggle altCursor can be used to select the cursor type.  If set, an underline cursor will be used.  If clear, the normal block cursor will be used.

       These  names also represent resources that can be set in your .Xdefaults or .x3270pro file.  For example, if you always want to have the scrollbar on, you can add the following to your .Xdefaults or
       .x3270pro:
              x3270.scrollBar:    true

       These names are also used as the first parameter to the Toggle action.

STATUS LINE
       The x3270 status line contains a variety of information.  From left to right, the fields are:

       comm status
              The first symbol is always a 4.  If x3270 is in TN3270E mode, the second symbol is a B; otherwise it is an A.  If x3270 is disconnected, the third symbol is a question  mark.   Otherwise,  if
              x3270 is in SSCP-LU mode, the third symbol is an S.  Otherwise it is blank.

       keyboard lock
              If the keyboard is locked, an "X" symbol and a message field indicate the reason for the keyboard lock.

       shift  Three characters indicate the keyboard modifier status.  "M" indicates the Meta key, "A" the Alt key, and an up-arrow or "^" indicates the Shift key.

       compose
              The letter "C" indicates that a composite character is in progress.  If another symbol follows the "C", it is the first character of the composite.

       typeahead
              The letter "T" indicates that one or more keystrokes are in the typeahead buffer.

       temporary keymap
              The letter "K" indicates that a temporary keymap is in effect.

       reverse
              The letter "R" indicates that the keyboard is in reverse field entry mode.

       insert mode
              A thick caret "^" or the letter "I" indicates that the keyboard is in insert mode.

       printer session
              The letter "P" indicates that a pr3287 session is active.

       script The letter "S" indicates that a script is active.

       LU name
              The LU name associated with the session, if there is one.

       timing A clock symbol and a time in seconds indicate the time it took to process the last AID or the time to connect to a host.  This display is optional.

       cursor position
              The cursor row and column are optionally displayed, separated by a "/".

ICONS
       If  the -activeicon option is given (or the "x3270.activeIcon" resource is set to true), x3270 will attempt to make its icon a miniature version of the current screen image.  This function is highly
       dependent on your window manager:

       mwm    The size of the icon is limited by the "Mwm.iconImageMaximum" resource, which defaults to 50x50.  The image will be clipped at the bottom and right.  The icon cannot accept keyboard input.

       olwm   The full screen image of all 3270 models can be displayed on the icon.  However, the icon cannot be resized, so if the model is later changed with an x3270 menu option, the icon image will be
              corrupted.  The icon cannot accept keyboard input.

       twm and tvtwm
              The full screen image of all 3270 models can be displayed on the icon, and the icon can be resized.  The icon can accept keyboard input.

              However,  twm  does not put labels on application-supplied icon windows.  You can have x3270 add its own label to the icon by setting the "x3270.labelIcon" resource to true.  The default font
              for icon labels is 8x13; you may change it with the "x3270.iconLabelFont" resource.

KEYMAPS
       The type of keyboard may be specified with the -keymap switch or using either the KEYMAP or KEYBD environment variables.  The types of supported keyboards  include  sun_k3,  sun_k4,  sun_k5,  hp-k1,
       hp-pc and ncd.

       The  keymap  may  also  be  specified as a comma-separated list of names.  Later definitions override earlier ones.  This is used to specify both a primary keyboard type and a set of modifiers.  The
       modifiers defined include:

       ow     (OpenWindows) Swaps the middle and right mouse button definitions, so the middle button performs the "Extend" function and the right-hand button performs the "Paste" function.   Also  changes
              the cut and paste actions to use the OpenWindows CLIPBOARD.

       apl    Allows entry of APL characters (see APL SUPPORT below).

       finnish7
              Replaces the bracket, brace and bar keys with common Finnish characters.

       norwegian7
              Replaces the bracket, brace and bar keys with common Norwegian characters.

       A  temporary  keymap  can  also be specified while x3270 is running with the Keymap action.  When the action Keymap(n) is executed, temporary keymap n is added to or deleted from the current keymap.
       Multiple temporary keymaps can be active simultaneously.  The action Keymap(None) restores the original keymap.  Note: When Keymap() is specified as part of a list of multiple actions in  a  keymap,
       it must be the last action in the list.

       The temporary keymap hebrew is provided to allow entry of Hebrew characters.

       The  X  Toolkit  translation  mechanism  is  used to provide keyboard emulation.  It maps events into actions.  The best documentation can be found with X toolkit documents, but the following should
       suffice for simple customization.

       An Xt event consists of (at least) four fields.  The first is called a modifier.  It may be any combination of Meta, Shift and Ctrl.  If it is prefaced by !, it  means  those  modifiers  only.   The
       second  field  is  the  specific event, in x3270 usually just <Key>.  The third field is the detail field, which gives the actual key.  The name of the key may be determined using the xev program or
       with the "Trace X Events" menu option.  The last field is the action, which is the internal emulator function.  A complete list of actions may be found later in the manual.

       There are three levels of translation tables in x3270.  The first is a defined by the resource x3270.keymap.base.  It defines alphabetic, numeric, function keys, and such basic  functions  as  Enter
       and Delete.  It allows a minimal useful functionality.  It is generally compiled in x3270, but can be overridden.

       The  second  level is a keyboard specific table, which is selected by the x3270.keymap resource, and defined by the x3270.keymap.name resource (where name is the value of the x3270.keymap resource).
       This keymap defines actions for such things as keypad keys, and keys unique to certain keyboards.  Several predefined keymaps are included with x3270.

       The third level is a user customizable table which may be used to augment or override key definitions.  This keymap is defined by the x3270.keymap.name.user resource.

       In addition, keymaps may be defined for use in 3270 mode or NVT mode only.  These keymaps use the suffixes .3270 and .nvt in  their  names,  respectively.   If  a  keymap  x3270.keymap.name.mode  is
       defined,  it  will  augment  the keymap x3270.keymap.name when x3270 is in the given mode.  If a keymap x3270.keymap.name.user.mode is defined, it will augment the keymap x3270.keymap.name.user when
       x3270 is in the given mode.

       The default translation table x3270.keymap.base is:

       <Key>Multi_key    Compose()
       Shift<Key>Left    KybdSelect(Left,PRIMARY)
       <Key>Left         Left()
       Meta<Key>Right    NextWord()
       Shift<Key>Right   KybdSelect(Right,PRIMARY)
       <Key>Right        Right()
       Shift<Key>Up      KybdSelect(Up,PRIMARY)
       <Key>Up           Up()
       Shift<Key>Down    KybdSelect(Down,PRIMARY)
       <Key>Down         Down()
       Ctrl<Btn1Down>    HandleMenu(quitMenu)
       Ctrl<Btn2Down>    HandleMenu(optionsMenu)
       Ctrl<Btn3Down>    HandleMenu(hostMenu)
       Shift<Btn1Down>   MoveCursor()
       <Btn1Down>        select-start()
       <Btn1Motion>      select-extend()

       <Btn2Down>        ignore()
       <Btn2Motion>      ignore()
       <Btn2Up>          insert-selection(PRIMARY)
       <Btn3Down>        start-extend()
       <Btn3Motion>      select-extend()
       <BtnUp>           select-end(PRIMARY)
       Meta<Key>F1       PF(13)
       Meta<Key>F2       PF(14)
       Meta<Key>F3       PF(15)
       Meta<Key>F4       PF(16)
       Meta<Key>F5       PF(17)
       Meta<Key>F6       PF(18)
       Meta<Key>F7       PF(19)
       Meta<Key>F8       PF(20)
       Meta<Key>F9       PF(21)
       Meta<Key>F10      PF(22)
       Meta<Key>F11      PF(23)
       Meta<Key>F12      PF(24)
       <Key>F1           PF(1)
       <Key>F2           PF(2)
       <Key>F3           PF(3)
       <Key>F4           PF(4)
       <Key>F5           PF(5)
       <Key>F6           PF(6)
       <Key>F7           PF(7)
       <Key>F8           PF(8)
       <Key>F9           PF(9)
       <Key>F10          PF(10)
       <Key>F11          PF(11)
       <Key>F12          PF(12)
       Alt<Key>q         Quit()
       :<Key>            Default()

       The default 3270-mode table x3270.keymap.base.3270 adds the following definitions:

       Shift<Key>Return        Newline()
       <Key>Return             Enter()
       <Key>Linefeed           Newline()
       Shift<Key>Tab           BackTab()
       <Key>Tab                Tab()
       <Key>Home               Home()
       Meta<Key>Left           PreviousWord()
       Meta<Key>Right          NextWord()
       <Key>Insert             Insert()
       <Key>Delete             Delete()
       <Key>BackSpace          BackSpace()
       Ctrl Shift<Btn1Down>    MouseSelect()
       Shift<Btn1Down>         MoveCursor()
       Meta<Key>1              PA(1)
       Meta<Key>2              PA(2)
       Meta<Key>3              PA(3)
       Ctrl<Key>a              SelectAll(PRIMARY)
       Meta<Key>a              Attn()
       Meta<Key>b              PrintWindow()
       Ctrl<Key>c              set-select(CLIPBOARD)
       Meta<Key>c              Clear()
       Meta<Key>d              Delete()
       Meta<Key>h              Home()
       Meta<Key>i              Insert()
       Meta<Key>l              Redraw()
       Meta<Key>p              PrintText()
       Meta<Key>r              Reset()
       Meta<Key>u              Unselect()
       Ctrl<Key>u              DeleteField()
       Ctrl<Key>v              insert-selection(CLIPBOARD)
       Ctrl<Key>w              DeleteWord()
       :Meta<Key>asciicircum   Key(notsign)

       Meta is the diamond shaped key on a sun_k4, "Alt" on an NCD, "Extend Char" on an HP.  The following xmodmap command must be used on the NCD to allow use the the "Alt" key:

              xmodmap -e "keysym Alt_L = Meta_L"

       The left mouse button may be used to make a selection.  Clicking once unselects the current selection.  Clicking twice selects the word under the mouse cursor.  Clicking three times selects the line
       under the mouse cursor.  Clicking and dragging selects a rectangular area of the display.

       The middle mouse button may be used to paste a selection.

       The right mouse button may also be used for selections, selecting the rectangular area between the current position and where the left button was last pressed.

       On  color  X  displays, the "x3270.selectBackground" resource is used to distinguish the selected text from the rest of the screen.  On monochrome X displays, selected text is in reverse video.  (It
       can be distinguished from a block cursor because the block cursor covers slightly less than an entire character position on the screen.)

       The left mouse button, when pressed with the "Shift" key held down, moves the 3270 cursor to the where the mouse cursor is pointing.

       This is the complete list of keymap-callable actions.  Other actions are defined for use by scripts and are documented in x3270-script(1); still others are defined for internal use by x3270 and  are
       not documented here.  Note that when an action with no parameters is used in a keymap, the parentheses and empty argument list are still required.


       Actions marked with an asterisk (*) may block, sending data to the host and possibly waiting for a response.

                                                                          *Attn                            attention key
                                                                          AltCursor                        switch between block and
                                                                                                           underscore cursor
                                                                          BackSpace                        move cursor left (or send
                                                                                                           ASCII BS)
                                                                          BackTab                          tab to start of previous input
                                                                                                           field
                                                                          CircumNot                        input "^" in NVT mode, or
                                                                                                           "notsign" in 3270 mode
                                                                          *Clear                           clear screen
                                                                          Compose                          next two keys form a special
                                                                                                           symbol
                                                                          *Connect(host)                   connect to host
                                                                          *CursorSelect                    Cursor Select AID
                                                                          Cut                              erase selected text
                                                                          Default                          enter key literally
                                                                          Delete                           delete character under cursor
                                                                                                           (or send ASCII DEL)
                                                                          DeleteField                      delete the entire field
                                                                          DeleteWord                       delete the current or previous
                                                                                                           word
                                                                          *Disconnect                      disconnect from host
                                                                          Down                             move cursor down
                                                                          Dup                              duplicate field
                                                                          *Enter                           Enter AID (or send ASCII CR)
                                                                          Erase                            erase previous character (or
                                                                                                           send ASCII BS)
                                                                          EraseEOF                         erase to end of current field
                                                                          EraseInput                       erase all input fields
                                                                          Execute(cmd)                     execute a command in a shell
                                                                          FieldEnd                         move cursor to end of field
                                                                          FieldMark                        mark field
                                                                          HandleMenu(name)                 pop up a menu
                                                                          HexString(hex_digits)            insert control-character
                                                                                                           string
                                                                          Home                             move cursor to first input
                                                                                                           field
                                                                          Insert                           set insert mode
                                                                          *Interrupt                       send TELNET IP to host
                                                                          Key(keysym)                      insert key keysym
                                                                          Key(0xxx)                        insert key with character code
                                                                                                           xx
                                                                          Keymap(keymap)                   toggle alternate keymap (or
                                                                                                           remove with None)
                                                                          KybdSelect(direction             Extend selection by one row or
                                                                            [,atom...])                    column
                                                                          Left                             move cursor left

                                                                          Left2                            move cursor left 2 positions
                                                                          *Macro(macro)                    run a macro
                                                                          MonoCase                         toggle uppercase-only mode
                                                                          MoveCursor                       move cursor to mouse position
                                                                          MoveCursor(row, col)             move cursor to (row,col)
                                                                          *MoveCursorSelect                move cursor to mouse position,
                                                                                                           light pen selection
                                                                          Newline                          move cursor to first field on
                                                                                                           next line (or send ASCII LF)
                                                                          NextWord                         move cursor to next word
                                                                          *PA(n)                           Program Attention AID (n from
                                                                                                           1 to 3)
                                                                          *PF(n)                           Program Function AID (n from 1
                                                                                                           to 24)
                                                                          PreviousWord                     move cursor to previous word
                                                                          Printer(Start[,lu]|Stop)         start or stop printer session
                                                                          PrintText(command)               print screen text on printer
                                                                          PrintWindow(command)             print screen image (bitmap) on
                                                                                                           printer
                                                                          Quit                             exit x3270
                                                                          *Reconnect                       reconnect to previous host
                                                                          Redraw                           redraw window
                                                                          Reset                            reset locked keyboard
                                                                          Right                            move cursor right
                                                                          Right2                           move cursor right 2 positions
                                                                          *Script(command[,arg...])        run a script
                                                                          SelectAll(atom)                  select entire screen
                                                                          SetFont(font)                    change emulator font
                                                                          *String(string)                  insert string (simple macro
                                                                                                           facility)
                                                                          *SysReq                          System Request AID
                                                                          Tab                              move cursor to next input
                                                                                                           field
                                                                          Toggle(option[,set|clear])       toggle an option
                                                                          ToggleInsert                     toggle insert mode
                                                                          ToggleReverse                    toggle reverse-input mode
                                                                          *Transfer(option=value...)       file transfer
                                                                          Unselect                         release selection
                                                                          Up                               move cursor up
                                                                          ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
                                                                          (the following are similar to
                                                                            xterm)
                                                                          ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
                                                                          ignore                           do nothing
                                                                          insert-                          paste selection
                                                                            selection([atom[,atom...]])
                                                                          move-select                      a combination of MoveCursor
                                                                                                           and select-start
                                                                          select-end(atom[,atom...]])      complete selection and assign
                                                                                                           to atom(s)
                                                                          select-extend                    move the end of a selection
                                                                          select-start                     mark the beginning of a
                                                                                                           selection
                                                                          set-select(atom[,atom...]])      assign existing selection to
                                                                                                           atom(s)
                                                                          start-extend                     begin marking the end of a
                                                                                                           selection

THE PRINTTEXT ACTION
       The PrintText produces screen snapshots in a number of different forms.  The default form wth no arguments sends a copy of the screen to the default printer.  A single argument is the command to use
       to print, e.g., lpr.  Multiple arguments can include keywords to control the output of PrintText:

       file filename
              Save the output in a file.

       html   Save the output as HTML.  This option implies file.

       rtf    Save the output as RichText.  This option implies file.  The font defaults to Courier New and the point size defaults to 8.  These can be overridden by  the  printTextFont  and  printTextSize
              resources, respectively.

       string Return the output as a string.  This can only be used from scripts.

       modi   Render modified fields in italics.

       caption text
              Add the specified text as a caption above the output.  Within text, the special sequence %T% will be replaced with a timestamp.

       secure Disables the pop-up dialog.

       command command
              Directs the output to a command.  This allows one or more of the other keywords to be specified, while still sending the output to the printer.


MACROS AND SCRIPTS
       There are several types of macros and script functions available.

       The String Action
              The  simplest  method  for  macros  is provided via the String action.  The arguments to String are one or more double-quoted strings which are inserted directly as if typed.  The C backslash
              conventions are honored as follows.  (Entries marked * mean that after sending the AID code to the host, x3270 will wait for the host to unlock the  keyboard  before  further  processing  the
              string.)

              \b       Left
              \exxxx   EBCDIC character in hex
              \f       Clear*
              \n       Enter*
              \pan     PA(n)*
              \pfnn    PF(nn)*
              \r       Newline
              \t       Tab
              \T       BackTab
              \uxxxx   Unicode character in hex
              \xxxxx   Unicode character in hex

              Note  that  the  numeric  values  for the \e, \u and \x sequences can be abbreviated to 2 digits.  Note also that EBCDIC codes greater than 255 and some Unicode character codes represent DBCS
              characters, which will work only if x3270 is built with DBCS support and the host allows DBCS input in the current field.

              An example keymap entry would be:
              Meta<Key>p: String("probs clearrdr\n")

              Note: The strings are in ASCII and converted to EBCDIC, so beware of inserting control codes.  Also, a backslash before a p may need to be doubled so it will not be removed  when  a  resource
              file is read.

              There  is also an alternate form of the String action, HexString, which is used to enter non-printing data.  The argument to HexString is a string of hexadecimal digits, two per character.  A
              leading 0x or 0X is optional.  In 3270 mode, the hexadecimal data represent EBCDIC characters, which are entered into the current field.  In NVT mode, the  hexadecimal  data  represent  ASCII
              characters, which are sent directly to the host.

       The Script Action
              This  action  causes  x3270  to  start  a child process which can execute x3270 actions.  Standard input and output from the child process are piped back to x3270.  The Script action is fully
              documented in x3270-script(1).

       The macros Resource
              An alternate method of defining macros is the "x3270.macros" resource.  This resource is similar to a keymap, but instead of defining keyboard mappings, it associates a list of X actions with
              a  name.   These  names  are  displayed  on  a  Macros  menu that appears when x3270 is connected to a host.  Selecting one of the names on the menu executes the X actions associated with it.
              Typically the actions are String calls, but any action may be specified.  Here is a sample macros resource definition, which would result in a four-entry Macros menu:
              x3270.macros: \
              log off: String("logout\n")\n\
              vtam: String("dial vtam\n")\n\
              pa1: PA(1)\n\
              alt printer: PrintText("lpr -Plw2")

              You can also define a different set of macros for each host.  If there is a resource named `x3270.macros.somehost', it defines the macros menu for when x3270 is connected to somehost.

       The -script Option
              This facility allows x3270 to operate under the complete control of a script.  x3270 accepts actions from standard input, and prints results on standard output.  The -script option  is  fully
              documented in x3270-script(1).

COMPOSITE CHARACTERS
       x3270  allows  the  direct  entry of accented letters and special symbols.  Pressing and releasing the "Compose" key, followed by two other keys, causes entry of the symbol combining those two keys.
       For example, "Compose" followed by the "C" key and the "," (comma) key, enters the "C-cedilla" symbol.  A C on the status line indicates a pending composite character.

       The mappings between these pairs of ordinary keys and the symbols they represent is controlled by the "x3270.composeMap" resource; it gives the name of the map to use.  The maps themselves are named
       "x3270.composeMap.name".  The default is "latin1", which gives mappings for most of the symbols in the ISO 8859-1 Latin-1 character set that are not in the 7-bit ASCII character set.

       Note: The default keymap defines the "Multi_key" keysym as the "Compose" key.  If your keyboard lacks such a key, you may set up your own "Compose" key with a keymap that maps some other keysym onto
       the Compose action.

APL SUPPORT
       x3270 supports the full APL2 character set and the entry of APL characters from the keyboard.

       APL characters are supported only in the special 3270 font.

       Keyboard entry of APL characters is supported through the apl keymap modifier.  This modifier defines the "Alt" key as an APL shift key, with a typical APL keyboard layout, e.g., "Alt" pressed  with
       the  A  key  results  in  the  APL  "alpha" symbol.  Overstruck characters such as "quad-quote" are not defined as single keystrokes; instead they are entered as composites (see COMPOSITE CHARACTERS
       above).  A special composite map, apl, is provided for this purpose.

       Note: Some keyboards do not define the "Alt" key as a modifier, so keymaps that use the "Alt" key will not function.  On a Sun for example, this can be remedied with the command:

              xmodmap -e "add mod2 = Alt_L"

       For convenience, an -apl option is defined, which is an abbreviation for the following resource definitions:
              x3270.keymap: your_keymap_name,apl
              x3270.charset: apl
              x3270.composeMap: apl

       There are a number of APL characters that are similar in appearance to non-APL characters.  In particular, the APL "stile", "slope," "tilde" and "quotedot"  characters  are  similar  to  the  EBCDIC
       "bar", "backslash," "tilde" and "exclaim" characters.  The APL characters are entered with the "Alt" key, and have slightly different appearances.

       The  complete list of special APL keysyms is as follows.  Entries marked with an asterisk (*) represent simple aliases for standard EBCDIC characters.  Entries marked with an (S) represent Sharp APL
       charatcers.

       APL Symbol            Hex   x3270 apl_ Keysym   x3270 Key   x3270 Composed Keys
       ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
       A underbar            41    Aunderbar           Alt-A       A + underbar
       alpha                 B0    alpha               Alt-a
       B underbar            42    Bunderbar           Alt-B       B + underbar
       bar                   60*   bar                 -
       brace left            C0    braceleft           Alt-{
       brace right           D0    braceright          Alt-}
       C underbar            43    Cunderbar           Alt-C       C + underbar
       circle                9D    circle              Alt-o
       circle bar            ED    circlebar                       circle + bar
       circle slope          CF    circleslope                     circle + slope
       circle star           FD    circlestar                      circle + star
       circle stile          CD    circlestile                     circle + stile
       colon                 7A*   colon               :
       comma                 6B*   comma               ,
       comma bar (S)         E5    commabar                        comma + bar
       D underbar            44    Dunderbar           Alt-D       D + underbar
       del                   BA    del                 Alt-g
       del stile             DC    delstile                        del + stile
       del tilde             FB    deltilde                        del + tilde
       delta                 BB    delta               Alt-h
       delta stile           DD    deltastile                      delta + stile
       delta underbar        FC    deltaunderbar                   delta + underbar
       diamond               70    diamond                         up caret + down caret
       dieresis              72    dieresis            Alt-1
       dieresis circle (S)   E5    dieresiscircle                  dieresis + circle
       dieresis dot          EC    dieresisdot                     dieresis + dot
       dieresis jot (S)      E4    dieresisjot                     dieresis + jot
       divide                B8    divide              Alt-+
       dot                   4B*   dot
       down arrow            8B    downarrow           Alt-u
       down caret            78    downcaret           Alt-9
       down caret tilde      CB    downcarettilde                  down caret + tilde
       down shoe             AB    downshoe            Alt-v
       down stile            8E    downstile           Alt-d
       down tack             AC    downtack            Alt-b
       down tack jot         FE    downtackjot                     down tack + jot

       down tack up tack     DA    downtackuptack                  down tack + up tack
       E underbar            45    Eunderbar           Alt-E       E + underbar
       epsilon               B1    epsilon             Alt-e
       epsilon underbar      75    epsilonunderbar                 epsilon + underbar
       equal                 7E*   equal               "="
       equal underbar        E1    equalunderbar                   equal + underbar
       euro (S)              E7    euro                            C + =
       F underbar            46    Funderbar           Alt-F       F + underbar
       G underbar            47    Gunderbar           Alt-G       G + underbar
       greater               6E*   greater             >
       H underbar            48    Hunderbar           Alt-H       H + underbar
       I underbar            49    Iunderbar           Alt-I       I + underbar
       iota                  B2    iota                Alt-i
       iota underbar         74    iotaunderbar                    iota + underbar
       J underbar            51    Junderbar           Alt-J       J + underbar
       jot                   AF    jot                 alt-j
       K underbar            52    Kunderbar           Alt-K       K + underbar
       L underbar            53    Lunderbar           Alt-L       L + underbar
       left arrow            9F    leftarrow           Alt-[
       left bracket          AD    leftbracket         [
       left paren            4D*   leftparen           (
       left shoe             9B    leftshoe            Alt-z
       less                  4C*   less                <
       M underbar            54    Munderbar           Alt-M       M + underbar
       N underbar            55    Nunderbar           Alt-N       N + underbar
       not equal             BE    notequal            Alt-8       equal + slash
       not greater           8C    notgreater          Alt-4       less + equal
       not less              AE    notless             Alt-6       greater + equal
       O underbar            56    Ounderbar           Alt-O       O + underbar
       omega                 B4    omega               Alt-w
       overbar               A0    overbar             Alt-2
       P underbar            57    Punderbar           Alt-P       P + underbar
       plus                  4E*   plus                +
       Q underbar            58    Qunderbar           Alt-Q       Q + underbar
       quad                  90    quad                Alt-l
       quad divide           EE    quaddivide                      quad + divide
       quad jot              73    quadjot                         quad + jot
       quad quote            DE    quadquote                       quad + quote
       quad slope            CE    quadslope                       quad + slope
       query                 6F*   query               ?
       quote                 7D*   quote
       quote dot             DB    quotedot                        quote + dot
       R underbar            59    Runderbar           Alt-R       R + underbar
       rho                   B3    rho                 Alt-r
       right arrow           8F    rightarrow          Alt-]
       right bracket         BD    rightbracket        ]
       right paren           5D*   rightparen          )
       right shoe            9A    rightshoe           Alt-x
       S underbar            62    Sunderbar           Alt-S       S + underbar
       semicolon             5E*   semicolon           ;
       slash                 61*   slash               /
       slash bar             EA    slashbar                        slash + bar
       slope                 B7    slope               Alt-\
       slope bar             EB    slopebar                        slope + bar
       squad                 CC    squad                           quad + quad
       star                  5C*   star                *
       stile                 BF    stile               Alt-|
       T underbar            63    Tunderbar           Alt-T       T + underbar
       tilde                 80    tilde               Alt-~
       times                 B6    times               Alt-=
       U underbar            64    Uunderbar           Alt-U       U + underbar
       underbar              6D*   underbar            "_"
       up arrow              8A    uparrow             Alt-y
       up caret              71    upcaret             Alt-0
       up caret tilde        CA    upcarettilde                    up caret + tilde
       up shoe               AA    upshoe              Alt-c
       up shoe jot           DF    upshoejot                       up shoe + jot
       up stile              8D    upstile             Alt-s
       up tack               BC    uptack              Alt-n

       up tack jot           EF    uptackjot                       up tack + jot
       V underbar            65    Vunderbar           Alt-V       V + underbar
       W underbar            66    Wunderbar           Alt-W       W + underbar
       X underbar            67    Xunderbar           Alt-X       X + underbar
       Y underbar            68    Yunderbar           Alt-Y       Y + underbar
       Z underbar            69    Zunderbar           Alt-Z       Z + underbar

XIM SUPPORT
       When compiled with DBCS support, x3270 supports multi-byte input methods via the XIM protocol.

       The input method is selected by the XMODIFIERS environment variable or the -im command-line option.

       The preedit type is specified by the -pt command-line option, with a default of OverTheSpot+1.

SCREEN PRINTING
       Screen printing is handled through options on the File menu or by the PrintText and PrintWindow actions.  Each results in a pop-up to confirm the print command.

       The PrintText action (usually assigned to the key <Meta>p) sends the current screen image to the printer as ASCII characters.  The default command used  to  print  the  data  is  controlled  by  the
       "x3270.printTextCommand"  resource;  the  default  is  lpr.   You  may  also use a keymap definition to pass a print command the PrintText action itself.  The command receives the screen text as its
       standard input.  For example, the following keymap will save the screen text in a file:

              Meta<Key>f: PrintText("cat >screen.image")

       Note: HardPrint is an alias for PrintText.

       The PrintWindow action (usually assigned to the key <Meta>b) sends the current screen image to the printer as  a  bitmap.   The  default  command  used  to  print  the  data  is  controlled  by  the
       "x3270.printWindowCommand" resource; the default is

              xwd -id %d | xpr | lpr.

       You  may  also  use a keymap definition to pass a print command to the PrintWindow action itself.  If the command contains the text "%d", the window ID of x3270 will be substituted before it is run.
       For example, the following keymap will pop up a duplicate of the current screen image:

              Meta<Key>g: PrintWindow("xwd -id %d | xwud &")

       If the command for PrintWindow or PrintText begins with an "@" character, the initial pop-up menu to confirm the print command is not displayed and the command cannot be edited.

BUGS
       Cursor highlighting will not work with if you use the NoTitleFocus option in your .twmrc file.


PASSTHRU
       x3270 supports the Sun telnet-passthru service provided by the in.telnet-gw server.  This allows outbound telnet connections through a firewall machine.  When a p: is prepended to a hostname,  x3270
       acts much like the itelnet(1) command.  It contacts the machine named internet-gateway at the port defined in /etc/services as telnet-passthru (which defaults to 3514).  It then passes the requested
       hostname and port to the in.telnet-gw server.

PROXY
       The -proxy option or the x3270.proxy resource causes x3270 to use a proxy server to connect to the host.  The syntax of the option or resource is:
              type:host[:port]

       The supported values for type are:

                                                                       Proxy Type   Protocol                                    Default Port
                                                                       ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
                                                                          http      RFC 2817 HTTP tunnel (squid)                    3128
                                                                        passthru    Sun in.telnet-gw                                none
                                                                         socks4     SOCKS version 4                                 1080
                                                                         socks5     SOCKS version 5 (RFC 1928)                      1080
                                                                         telnet     No protocol (just send connect host port)       none

       The special types socks4a and socks5d can also be used to force the proxy server to do the hostname resolution for the SOCKS protocol.

FILES
       /etc/ibm_hosts
       $HOME/.x3270pro


ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       3270PRO Path of profile file, containing resource definitions.  Merged after the system resource database, but before X3270RDB.  Defaults to $HOME/.x3270pro.
       NOX3270PRO If set, do not read the profile.
       X3270RDB Additional resource definitions, merged after the profile file but before the command-line options.
       KEYMAP Keymap name.
       KEYBD Keymap name.

SEE ALSO
       s3270(1), c3270(1), tcl3270(1), ibm_hosts(5), x3270-script(1), telnet(1), tn3270(1)
       X Toolkit Intrinsics
       Data Stream Programmer's Reference, IBM GA23-0059
       Character Set Reference, IBM GA27-3831
       RFC 1576, TN3270 Current Practices
       RFC 1646, TN3270 Extensions for LUname and Printer Selection
       RFC 2355, TN3270 Enhancements

COPYRIGHTS
       Copyright 1993-2013, Paul Mattes.
       Copyright 2004-2005, Don Russell.
       Copyright 2004, Dick Altenbern.
       Copyright 1990, Jeff Sparkes.
       Copyright 1989, Georgia Tech Research Corporation (GTRC), Atlanta, GA
        30332.
       All rights reserved.

       Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:


       *      Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

       *      Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials  provided  with  the
              distribution.

       *      Neither  the  names  of  Paul Mattes, Don Russell, Dick Altenbern, Jeff Sparkes, GTRC nor the names of their contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
              without specific prior written permission.


       THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY PAUL MATTES, DON RUSSELL, DICK ALTENBERN, JEFF SPARKES AND GTRC "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED  WARRANTIES  OF
       MERCHANTABILITY  AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL PAUL MATTES, DON RUSSELL, DICK ALTENBERN, JEFF SPARKES OR GTRC BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
       SPECIAL EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER  CAUSED  AND
       ON  ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY
       OF SUCH DAMAGE.

VERSION
       x3270 3.3.12ga12



                                                                                               26 February 2013                                                                                      x3270(1)
