XXDIFF(1)                                                     General Commands Manual                                                    XXDIFF(1)

NAME
       xxdiff - a graphical file comparator and merge tool

SYNOPSIS
       xxdiff [OPTIONS] <path> <path> [<path>]

OVERVIEW
       xxdiff is a graphical file and directories comparison and merge tool. It can be used for viewing the differences between two or three
       files, or two directories, and can be used to produce a merged version. The texts of the two or three files are presented side by side with
       their differences highlighted with colors for easy identification.

       The paths supplied on the command line identify the files to be compared.  The paths may be one of three things:  a regular file, a direc‐
       tory or a '-', in which case the input for that path will be read from standard input.  If the paths are all directories, a directory diff
       will be performed.  If at least one path is a file or a '-', a file diff will be performed.  If there are directory names along with file
       names, the basename of the file name will be appended to the directory names to find the other files to compare with.  If there are multi‐
       ple file names specified and some directories names as well, xxdiff bails out, since it doesn't know which basename to use for the missing
       one.

       Please consult xxdiff --help for more documentation.

OPTIONS
       --help  Show help about options.

       --help-qt
               Show Qt specific options.

       --help-all
               Show all options.

       --help-html
               Output documentation in HTML.

       --version, -v
               Show version information and compilation options it was built with.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Returns the exit status generated by the diff command.  This is usually 0 for no differences, 1 for some differences and 2 for errors.

SEE ALSO
       diff(1), xxdiff-encrypted.html, xxdiff-match.html, xxdiff-cvs-diff.html, xxdiff-find-grep-sed.html, xxdiff-match.html

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 1999, 2000, 2001, 2003  Martin Blais

       See the GNU General Public License for a full statement of rights and permissions.

AUTHOR
       Martin Blais <blais@furius.ca>

       Debian Linux package is maintained by Tomas Pospisek <tpo_deb@sourcepole.ch>.

                                                                                                                                         XXDIFF(1)
